The Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA) took to Twitter on Monday morning to confirm there was an issue with the CommBank app and NetBank affecting credit cards and debit cards.

"We're aware of an issue with the CommBank app and NetBank affecting credit cards and debit cards. Some card settings may also be unavailable right now. We apologise for disrupting your morning, we're working urgently to fix this as soon as we can," CBA tweeted.

Users, however, were reporting the issue was stretching further than just CommBank and NetBank, with reports all cards were not working.

"Hi there, we are aware some customers are experiencing issues and we are investigating this as a priority," the yellow bank was telling customers on Twitter.

The bank's CEO Matt Comyn has been touting his company is executing on its vision to provide the best digital experience to customers.

"Our strategy more broadly is really to be the most relevant and trusted partner for our customers at the centre of their financial lives," Comyn said previously.

"Being able to deliver the best digital experience; our aspiration again is to be the best digital experience in Australia, bar none."

During 2020, the bank peaked at more than 10 million daily logins into its Commbank app.

In an update tweeted at 1:35pm AEST on Monday, CBA said services were starting to resume.

"UPDATE 1:35pm: We are starting to see services resume. If you're still experiencing issues please insert your card and use your PIN. If you use your device to tap and pay, cardless cash is still available at CommBank ATMs," it tweeted.

An hour later, the bank reported its systems were returning to normal.

For the first half of the year, CBA recorded AU$4.9billion in statutory net profit after tax.

Updated Monday 26 April 2021 at 4:10pm AEST: Added systems were returning to normal.

LATEST FROM THE YELLOW AND BLACK BANK

Best digital experience in Australia, bar none: Commonwealth Bank CEO's promise

Matt Comyn said his bank is planning to send almost all of its applications to an 'integrated cloud installation'.

Commonwealth Bank using emergency services data to find vulnerable customers

Using algorithms to monitor a mix of data points from official emergency sources and weather alert systems to offer support to customers impacted by natural disasters.

Commonwealth Bank's refreshed digital strategy to focus on the power of AI

The bank has also scooped up hospitality cloud platform Doshii to celebrate one year of its venture arm, X15 Ventures.