Hip-Hop Legend Eminem Launches Beat-Inspired Animated NFTs for Stans

The critically acclaimed rap phenomenon Marshall Mathers, professionally known as Eminem has revealed he is jumping into the non-fungible token (NFT) collectibles game. Eminem is auctioning three types of NFTs via Nifty Gateway and each design was created by the hip-hop legend.

Slim Shady Enters the NFT Fray

Week after week, the NFT universe continues to grow larger and a great number of celebrities are joining in on the NFT bandwagon. The space has continued to swell with a myriad of different NFT projects, concepts, and marketplaces.

Bitcoin.com has reported on a number of popular projects and luminaries minting non-fungible token collectibles like actress Lindsay Lohan, Kansas City Chiefs quarterback Patrick Mahomes, the Tampa Bay Buccaneers Rob “Gronk” Gronkowski’s NFTs, Tom Brady’s Autograph project, Topps Garbage Pail Kids and Baseball cards, Annoying Orange NFTs, and NFT collectibles by Kenyan filmmaker Rich Allela.

Now the multi-platinum recording artist and often considered “one of the greatest rappers of all time,” Eminem, is dropping some Slim Shady NFTs for his Stans. The rapper who has sold approximately 130 million records globally and 389 million singles during his career, will now sell blockchain collectible assets.

Critically Acclaimed ‘Greatest Rapper of All-Time’ Has Been a Collector for Years

Eminem says that he’s been a collector for years and it all started with cassette tapes. The well known hip-hop star is three types of animated NFTs with beats produced by Slim Shady himself.

“I’ve been collecting since I was a kid, everything from comic books to baseball cards to toys, as well as every rap album on cassette I could get my hands on,” Eminem explained during the NFT announcement. “Not much has changed for me as an adult…I’ve attempted to re-create some of those collections from that time in my life, and I know I’m not alone,” he added.

The hip-hop phenomenon further said:

I wanted to give this drop the same vibe of, ‘Oh, man I gotta get just that one or maybe even the whole set!’ It’s been a lot of fun coming up with ideas from my own collecting passion.”

Eminem’s NFT sale is happening on the NFT marketplace Nifty Gateway and there are 50 editions of the NFTs called “TOOLS OF THE TRADE” and “STILL D.G.A.F.” The last NFT is a limited edition single copy called “STAN’S REVENGE,” and it will be sold auction style.

The first two NFTs will be a flat rate of $5k per Eminem NFT. The NFT art and animations were created by an artist called “D.O.M.” There is also a not yet available NFT pack limited to 888 remaining pieces that haven’t been released. The Eminem NFT auction on Nifty Gateway is happening today according to the marketplace’s Twitter account.

What do you think about the lineup of NFTs produced by Eminem? Let us know what you think about this subject in the comments section below.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons, Eminem,

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not a direct offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or a recommendation or endorsement of any products, services, or companies. Bitcoin.com does not provide investment, tax, legal, or accounting advice. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.