Hello everyone! Welcome to this weekly roundup of Investing stories from deputy editor Joe Ciolli. Please subscribe here to get this newsletter in your inbox every week.

Hello and welcome to Insider Investing. I'm Joe Ciolli, and I'm here to guide you through what's been happening in markets. Here's what's on the docket:

If you aren't yet a subscriber to Insider Investing, you can sign up here.

Have thoughts on the newsletter? Just want to talk markets? Feel free to drop me a line at jciolli@insider. com or on Twitter @JoeCiolli.

Samantha Lee/Insider

SPAC issuance is down 90% from March as once-hot retail-investor demand wanes — and short-sellers have certain blank-check companies firmly in their sights. We spoke to one SPAC skeptic about how he decides which ones to bet against, and another investor shared arbitrage opportunities in the space.

Read the full stories here:

REUTERS/Stephen Lam

Dan Held is the growth lead at Kraken, the fourth largest crypto exchange by trading volume. He first bought Bitcoin at $10 and began to double down in 2014 after acquiring a "HODL" mindset. He explains how Bitcoin might hit $1 million by year-end — and as a bonus lays out what meme token Dogecoin is all about.

Read the full story here:

Tappan

Online art platform Tappan Collective, which launched in 2012, saw sales double in 2020 as online art sales surged. Co-founder Chelsea Nassib explained why Tappan is now allowing crypto payments and NFT certificates of authenticity. She also shared four art-investing tips to capitalize on the art boom and seven emerging artists to watch.

Read the full story here:

The US economy is poised to grow at its fastest pace since 1984. With a recovery that brisk, expect plenty of strange developments over the next few months. Doug Mills-Pool/Getty Images; Samantha Lee/Insider

Economists expect the US economy to grow at its fastest pace since 1984 this year. Insider senior correspondent Aki Ito digs into what led to the boom, and what it means going forward for an American populace still feeling the unique effects of a historic downturn.

Read the full story here:

Stock pick central

Seeking experts who are willing to name names? Look no further: