Programmer 8-bit Show And Tell managed to mod his 1 MHz Commodore 64 to mine Bitcoin. This is a remarkable feat for hardware that's close to 40 years old. However, at 0.3 H/s, the system will take nearly a billion years, just to turn a profit of US$10.

4 Reviews , News , CPU , GPU , Articles , Columns , Other "or" search relation. 5G , Accessory , Alder Lake , AMD , Android , Apple , ARM , Audio , Business , Camera , Cannon Lake , Cezanne (Zen 3) , Charts , Chinese Tech , Chromebook , Coffee Lake , Comet Lake , Console , Convertible / 2-in-1 , Cryptocurrency , Cyberlaw , Deal , Desktop , Exclusive , Fail , Foldable , Gadget , Galaxy Note , Galaxy S , Gamecheck , Gaming , Geforce , Google Pixel , GPU , How To , Ice Lake , Intel Evo / Project Athena , Internet of Things (IoT) , iOS , iPad Pro , iPhone , Jasper Lake , Lakefield , Laptop , Launch , Linux / Unix , Lucienne (Zen 2) , MacBook , Mini PC , Monitor , MSI , OnePlus , Opinion , Phablet , Radeon , Renoir , Review Snippet , Rocket Lake , Rumor , Ryzen (Zen) , Science , Security , Smart Home , Smartphone , Smartwatch , Software , Storage , Tablet , ThinkPad , Thunderbolt , Tiger Lake , Touchscreen , Ultrabook , Virtual Reality (VR) / Augmented Reality (AR) , Wearable , Windows , Workstation , XPS , Zen 3 (Vermeer) Ticker

Benchmark.pl recently reported that a modder and programmer, 8 Bit Show and Tell, recently managed to get his Commodore 64 mining Bitcoin. The 1982-vintage PC sports a 1 MHz processor, thousands of times slower than the average budget Android smartphone. That didn't deter 8 Bit Show and Tell from his attempt to get "Bitcoin Miner 64" running on the Commodore.

The modder shared his results in a YouTube video. The good news? The C64 can, theoretically, mine Bitcoin. That's a remarkable achievement for a system that's older than Tetris. The bad news, however, is that the C64 manages a hashrate of just 0.3 H/s. Even with relatively cheap electricity, we calculated that it would take roughly 758 million years for the setup to generate US$10 in profit.

While Bitcoin Miner 64 is a wholly impractical piece of software, it is interesting to see a piece of hardware this old actually mining crypto. If you're serious about mining, however, you might want to keep your eyes peeled for the upcoming Antminer E9, which is reportedly faster than 32 GeForce RTX 3080s in unison for Ethereum workloads.