OVR Launches Futuristic Virtual Gallery for NFTs and More

sponsored

Today, April 26th, 2021, the virtual gallery of OVR.ai was inaugurated to showcase artists working with non-fungible tokens (NFT) and beyond.

Considering the hype around the NFT phenomenon this year and also given that the Coronavirus pandemic prevents most artists from exhibiting works in museums and participating in exhibitions, as well as also people from being able to visit art galleries, the company OVR decided to introduce a museum in its blockchain-based virtual world, allowing the top artists in the field to exhibit their NFTs.

Starting today, it is possible to download the OVR app (available on both Android and iOS) and visit this section of the virtual world dedicated to art.

The NFT Artists of OVR

Among the artists exhibiting their Non Fungible Tokens today for the opening of OVR’s gallery is Italian artist Giovanni Motta, born in 1971, who has just opened his solo exhibition in Shanghai, selling out before the opening.

Motta will have a dedicated gallery on OVR, as he is also one of the Italian NFT artists who have climbed the SuperRare rankings and reached the top. The subject of his works is Jonny Boy, the child that lies within each of us.

During the inauguration, the artist will be present in the gallery in the form of an avatar to answer questions from the public.

Not Only NFTs

The OVR galleries will also host an exhibition by Marco Biscardi, whose art brings together elements of contemporary criticism, and Rok Bogataj, an artist who creates works that link the everyday and the mythical using materials such as plastic, metal and wood.

Not all the artists exhibiting are creators of NFTs, and in fact in the OVR gallery, we will be able to find both digital and non-digital works.

This is a sponsored post. Learn how to reach our audience here. Read disclaimer below.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not a direct offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or a recommendation or endorsement of any products, services, or companies. Bitcoin.com does not provide investment, tax, legal, or accounting advice. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.