Cryptocurrency: Expert discusses success of Bitcoin

FREE now SUBSCRIBE Invalid email Make the most of your money by signing up to our newsletter fornow When you subscribe we will use the information you provide to send you these newsletters. Sometimes they'll include recommendations for other related newsletters or services we offer. Our Privacy Notice explains more about how we use your data, and your rights. You can unsubscribe at any time.

Bitcoin fell from $37,156 at 6.30am BST to $34,800 at 2pm BST. This was a fall of over five percent in just a few hours.

Separately the value of Ethereum declined from $2,565 at 6.15am BST to $2,398 at 2pm BST. Bitcoin has had an unstable 2021 with its value fluctuating between $30,000 and $65,000. It followed a year of huge growth in the virtual currency’s value in 2020. Earlier this month the value of Bitcoin, Ethereum and Dogecoin fell sharply following new regulations in China.

The value of Bitcoin has plunged five percent

Bitcoin surged in value during 2020

Beijing has cracked down on Bitcoin mining after controversy about the amount of electricity it uses. There is speculation US lawmakers may attempt to impose financial oversight over the unstable market. Ipek Ozkardeskaya, a senior Swissquote analyst, predicted a busy weekend of crypto trading. He commented: “Looking at the unrest across the crypto market, there is a chance that we see another hectic weekend trading in Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies.” READ MORE: Inflation rise sparks fears mortgages could rage out of control - will you be affected?



"We are concerned about rapidly increasing use of fossil fuels for Bitcoin mining and transactions"

Trending

"Cryptocurrency is a good idea on many levels and we believe it has a promising future"

"Tesla has suspended vehicle purchases using Bitcoin"

“Cryptocurrency is a good idea on many levels and we believe it has a promising future, but this cannot come at great cost to the environment. “Tesla will not be selling any Bitcoin and we intend to use it for transactions as soon as mining transitions to a more sustainable energy.” Crypto advocates have stepped up their environmental efforts after Mr Musk revealed his concern.

Chinese regulators have cracked down on Bitcoin