RECLAIM MY LOSSES HELPING CUSTOMERS WHO ARE GETTING SUED BY BLOCKFI

NEW YORK, NEW YORK, UNITED STATES, May 29, 2021 /EINPresswire.com/ -- BlockFi, the crypto lending and trading business, mistakenly deposited large amounts of crypto to user accounts. The payments were associated with a promotion they were running, in which users would receive bonuses in USD stablecoins. The promotion was intended to be “paid out in one lump sum in GUSD” according to their website. Instead, some accounts were paid the amount denominated in Bitcoin, with some receiving over 700 BTC (worth >$28,000,000 at current prices).

A screenshot from one affected user who withdrew the funds shows threat of possible legal action should they not be returned, and a pay-out of $500 should they return them by a set time.

BlockFi clearly has their hands full dealing with the mistakenly deposited bonus payments, and users have reported experiencing additional issues with the company’s services. The BlockFi subreddit is full of posts with individuals receiving the mistaken funds, having difficulty withdrawing, and being unable to trade. One user claim to have been falsely accused of withdrawing mistaken funds after withdrawing USDC which he or she had been deposited a month earlier.

After this news broke the internet, Reclaim My Losses received various enquires from all over the world about what a customer should do as they were receiving legal threats from BlockFi that they would be sued if the bitcoins were not reversed back to them.

Reclaim My Losses legal team have assisted hundreds of such customers and have provided them with a firm legal ground about their rights and what they should be doing in such situation. Hundreds of people got relief after Reclaim My Losses have provided them with legal guidance and assurance that they are safe and will not face any legal consequences upon the mistakenly transferred bitcoins to their account.

One of the spoke persons from Reclaim My Losses said that their firm have dealt with thousands of such cases wherein customers have received various coins due to the glitch of various exchanges. These innocent customers get excited that they have received promotional coins and transfer it to other wallet or either dilute it into their account and are later barged by these exchanges threatening them that there will be legal actions for doing such transactions where the exchanges should hold them self-responsible for the glitch caused into their systems and humbly request the customers to return back the coins.

Reclaim my losses act as a strong pillar for customers from BlockFi who are being threatened to be carried legal actions against them. They said they are open to all the queries that customers have and are ready to provide them with legal guidance at every step.