Sheetz is becoming the first major restaurant and convenience chain to accept cryptocurrencies. These are the details.

Sheetz is going to become the first major restaurant and convenience chain to accept cryptocurrencies like bitcoin, dogecoin, ether, litecoin, etc. To accept payments for food, gas, and other items through cryptocurrencies, Sheetz partnered with Flexa and NCR.

Sheetz is planning to begin accepting digital currencies using Flexa’s instant and climate-neutral payments technology at select Sheetz Cafe Stores later this summer. And there is a planned rollout later in the year for acceptance at Sheetz’s fuel pumps as well.

Currently, Sheetz operates 622 stores in Pennsylvania, North Carolina, Virginia, West Virginia, Ohio and Maryland. And Sheetz customers will also have the option to link their My Sheetz Rewardz loyalty account when paying with Flexa-enabled apps.

KEY QUOTES:

“With interest in digital currencies reaching all-time highs, it’s easy to lose sight of the fact that there are real, tangible benefits for the merchants who accept them—not only reduced fraud and cost savings, but also a better and more mobile customer experience. Sheetz is one of the most forward-thinking brands in the business and understands their customer base better than anyone else. We’re absolutely elated that Flexa can help them become the first convenience and retail chain to accept digital currencies directly at the pump.”

— Trevor Filter, co-founder of Flexa

“Above all else, our mission at Sheetz is to continue providing our customers with the ultimate one-stop-shop where they can refuel their car and refresh their body. As a result, we are constantly innovating and exploring new offerings to truly give our customers what they want, when they want it, 24/7/365 — that includes accepting many forms of payment. We’re very excited to be working with Flexa to roll out support for cryptocurrencies and other types of digital assets at our stores.”

— Linda Smith, Payments Manager for Sheetz

“Connecting through the existing POS solution to the NCR payment gateway enables retailers to quickly integrate new solutions making it easy to introduce new innovations enabled by digital currencies. Retailers benefit through increased loyalty, lower transaction fees, and reduced fraud while improving convenience and choice for shoppers.”

— Tim Vanderham, Chief Technology Officer of NCR