Highlights Realme 8 will allegedly come in Cyber Silver and Cber Black colours and configured with 4GB/8GB RAM coupled with 128GB of storage

Similarly, the Realme 8 Pro ups the RAM to 6GB/8GB with 128GB storage, and will be offered in Infinite Black, Infinite Blue, Illuminating Yellow hues

Realme 8 launch date is tipped for the end of March

With the Realme 8 series launch date set for sometime in March, several leaks have begun to surface around the smartphones. Twitter user @byhimanshu has new information about the colour variants and RAM/ storage configurations of the lineup. The vanilla Realme 8 will be available in two colours, namely Cyber Silver and Cyber Black. It reportedly will be available in 4GB and 8GB RAM options, paired with 128GB storage. On the other hand, the Realme 8 Pro will feature 6GB and 8GB RAM, coupled with 128GB of storage. Its colour options include Infinite Black, Infinite Blue, and Illuminating Yellow. The leaker rounds things off by stating that Realme could tell us more about the series soon as the Realme 8 India launch will happen sometime towards the end of March.

Exclusive:#realme8

– Cyber Silver / Black

– 4/8GB + 128GB#realme8Pro

– Infinite Black / Blue & Illuminating Yellow

– 6/8GB + 128GB



We might see announcement upcoming week, launch could be as soon as march end.



I won’t comment over other specs, most of them are already up. — Himanshu (@byhimanshu) March 7, 2021

Realme 8 series specifications

Several key Realme 8 specifications have been revealed to us earlier. For starters, the entry-level model will likely run a Qualcomm Snapdragon 720G or Snapdragon 732G chipset. There are some 5G-ready variants in the works too, though @byhimanshu says at least the base variants will not have 5G support. We can expect them to feature a Qualcomm Snapdragon 750G or a similarly-specced MediaTek chipset, but we don’t know that for sure just yet.

However, the Realme 8 series has been hyped up for its camera specifications. Realme has officially confirmed that it would be the first of its kind to ship with the 108MP Samsung ISOCELL HM2 sensor, the same one found on the Xiaomi Mi 10i and Redmi Note 10 Pro Max. The Realme 8 Pro is also expected to pack a 4,500mAh battery that supports fast charging at 65W, according to its recent appearance on the FCC website.