ATLANTA, May 3, 2021 /PRNewswire/ -- Bitcoin Depot – the largest and fastest growing cryptocurrency ATM network – announced today the launch of over 350 new crypto ATMs opening across the U.S. The company has more than doubled its kiosk footprint in the last six months, surpassing 2,500 kiosks worldwide, as it continues its mission to provide easy and convenient access to cryptocurrency transactions for all.

Bitcoin Depot

Bitcoin Depot's kiosks exchange cash for cryptocurrency, allowing for simple, in-person exchanges that give users immediate buying power. The company's impressive growth demonstrates the increasing popularity of cryptocurrency transactions, as bitcoin and other digital cryptos move toward the mainstream. In fact, Bitcoin Depot has seen a surge of large convenience chains who have been hosting crypto ATMs, as well as several other big-name companies who are making moves to start accepting the top-rated cryptocurrency as a direct form of payment.

Throughout the past month, Bitcoin Depot deployed 355 crypto ATMs in 40 different states, including:

40 new kiosks across Florida

32 new kiosks across North Carolina

24 new kiosks across Texas

23 new kiosks across California

20 new kiosks across Georgia

"Cryptocurrency offers opportunities for people that don't have access to traditional financial services," said Bitcoin Depot President and CEO Brandon Mintz. "Our kiosks allow them to essentially self-bank through the digital wallet on their phone, by turning their cash into cryptocurrency which can be used transfer money, pay bills or invest. We are proud that our continued expansion will bring this option to more people across the world."

Bitcoin Depot expects to grow by 200% this year.

For more information about Bitcoin Depot, or to find a full list of bitcoin ATM locations, visit www.bitcoindepot.com.

About Bitcoin Depot®

Bitcoin Depot® is a cryptocurrency ATM network based in Atlanta, Georgia. It is the fastest growing multi-cryptocurrency ATM network in the world. The company's mission is to provide the most secure, convenient, and fastest cryptocurrency transactions, ultimately opening up the cryptocurrency market to the masses. The 2,500-plus strong network of cryptocurrency ATMs enables users to buy Bitcoin, Litecoin, and Ethereum instantly. Learn more at www.bitcoindepot.com , as well as on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram.

Media Contact:

Lindsey Harrison

6307301808

[email protected]

SOURCE Bitcoin Depot

Related Links

http://www.bitcoindepot.com

