This article gives an overview of Bitcoin, the cryptocurrency exchange where the digital coin could be bought and sold, and — most importantly for beginners — the exchange at a glance that can help answer the question: Where should you buy Bitcoin?

Bitcoin (CRYPTO: BTC) has returned 83.56% year-to-date (YTD). Cryptocurrency has benefitted extensively from the crypto boom of 2021. Bitcoin reached an all-time high of $64,863.10 on April 14, 2021. This propelled cryptocurrency to surpass $1 trillion in market capitalization and has led to an interest in Bitcoin from novice to seasoned traders and investors. With billions of dollars in daily trade volume, where do beginners find credible exchanges that can safely store your coins?

Where Can You Buy Bitcoin?

Bitcoin is listed on all major cryptocurrency exchanges. Due to restrictions, you should be able to buy Bitcoin on a platform that can safely and securely hold your coins. Wondering if you can buy Bitcoin in the U.S., Venezuela, Korea, or any other country without any hindrances? One particular exchange that has been in operation since 2013 and is trusted by more than 2 million people globally, is Coinmama. Coinmama is one of the few exchanges where you can buy Bitcoin with credit card.

Coinmama at a Glance

Coinmama was created in 2013 as a cryptocurrency exchange in Israel. As a financial service company, Coinmama thrives on the idea of decentralized finance. It aims to drive out intermediaries such as traditional banks, which come with hidden fees.

Coinmama sees high volume from countries such as Venezuela, Trinidad and Tobago, UAE and Korea. Residents of such developing countries are investing in Bitcoin because they do not have access to the U.S. stock market through conventional methods. Aside from this, cryptocurrencies are relatively cheaper and easier to access. Despite the Kimchi Premium in Korea, people feel investing in Bitcoin brings a sense of financial inclusion.

Story continues

How to Buy Bitcoin on Coinmama

You now know how inclusive Bitcoin is to global citizens through Coinmama. Follow the steps below to buy your first coins with CoinMama.

SIGN UP! Provide authentic details of your full legal name, create a strong password and choose your country of residence.

Verify your account. Verification normally takes 10 to 30 minutes to complete.

Upload funds. If you’re wondering whether you can buy Bitcoin with a credit card, you can. Coinmama supports Apple Pay, Google Pay, SEPA, MasterCard and Visa.

NAVIGATE to BITCOIN PAGE. Purchase Bitcoin and it would be processed and added to your account.

Should You Buy Bitcoin at Coinmama?

Coinmama operates in 188 countries and through its operations have gained the trust of more than 2.7 million people. With an array of payment options, a highly secured and user-friendly platform, Coinmama is a good consideration to buying Bitcoin. Several investors forecast Bitcoin to reach at least $100,000 soon. Now could be the time to create an account so that you don’t miss out on potential gains.

See more from Benzinga

© 2021 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved.