Representational picture | Photo Credit: AP

Key Highlights Bitcoins are using more energy than all of Argentina Massive BTC mining setups are now based out of China, being powered by coal 70% of today's Bitcoins are from China, prompting calls for a 'greener' crypto

Bitcoin's cult is now turning into what faith was to humanity, in the medieval age. When revolutionaries would challenge the priests, only to be slaughtered. Similar was the backlash Elon Musk faced from the crypto world. He soon clarified on rumours if Tesla has or could dump Bitcoins over energy concerns. No, he hasn't sold any bitcoins. But Musk wants you to believe he has taken a principled stance, "It can’t drive a massive increase in fossil fuel use, especially coal. It is high time there was a carbon tax!" He is still a believer. Elon Musk's caution echoes the call for miners to find a way to 'go green' on bitcoin.

But do we know just how much energy do Bitcoins consume? There is a Bitcoin Energy Consumption Index by an online platform Digiconomist. It claims bitcoin's carbon footprint now matches that of London. Digiconomist wants to 'raise awareness on the unsustainability of the proof-of-work algorithm'. Proof-of-work is a method to secure cryptocurrencies. Bitcoin mining now consumes 66 times more electricity than what it did back in 2015, according to a Citigroup report. Is this the shape of the future? Or an unstable fad on a super-charged energy diet? It depends on which narrative you believe in. At this pace, bitcoin mining could eat up the same amount of energy as The Netherlands consumed in 2019. Comparisons don't stop there. Data from Cambridge University's "Bitcoin Consumption Index" says Bitcoins are using more energy than entire Argentina!

Bitcoin energy tracker Digiconomist reveals a large portion of mining setups are now based out of China. Close to 70 per cent of bitcoin mining could be happening in China. And this rising Chinese clout - and its coal - is pointing towards fears of over-centralisation. Nothing unusual when it comes to China. But centralisation is a premise contrary to what Bitcoin has stood for. China's coal-fired bitcoin mining frenzy could peak in 2024. It would then add as much carbon dioxide in the air as Italy does, in a year. Not the sort of glory that bitcoin's green brigade is seeking. Like Musk, Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey too has green-crypto ambitions. One of the companies he backs - the credit and payments firm Square - wants to support bitcoins mined using greener sources. It has what it calls a Bitcoin Clean Energy Initiative - with a $10 million corpus to begin with.

But as the gladiatorial sparring on social media gets high-pitched, the cryptos are gyrating too fast, and too quick. American businessman Michael Saylor found Elon Musk's tweets that crashed the crypto last week as 'tasteless and elitist'. He calls Bitcoins the 'cleanest money ever invented'. The world generates 160,000 terawatt-hours of energy a year. Saylor says the entire bitcoin network uses only 120 terawatt-hours - a mere 7-1/2 bps of all the energy in the world. In comparison, bitcoin offers a chance to create wealth for millions who may not be as privileged as Musk, says Saylor.

There is evident hope that Bitcoin's energy problem will be solved. Too much money and effort is riding on it.