How To Keep Your BTC Safe?

As the popularity of Bitcoin is growing, there is a rise in the number of investors, trading sites, and providers of Bitcoin wallets. Hence, it’s essential to take the time and choose safe options for your BTC. In this article, we provide top tips to keep your BTC safe, regardless if you’re using BTC for online purchases, trading, or you want to store them for a longer period of time.

Safe Bitcoin Wallet

The first step is investing in a secure wallet and reliable provider. There are three types of wallets that you can use on devices that are connected to the Internet, including mobile wallets, desktop, and web Bitcoin wallets. The first one is the mobile wallet which is very accessible and is used for online and offline purchases.

It is an app that you download on your phone, and the main drawback is that it can be vulnerable to malware. The next format is a web wallet, which is commonly used for online trading, and a lot of exchange platforms also offer a web wallet to make it easier for new investors to sign up on the site and start trading. But you have to keep in mind because this is an online wallet, your BTC is saved on a third-party server, probably from your provider. So, in comparison to the other two types of wallets, this is certainly not as safe as the other two.

But if you find a good provider and use your wallet on safe sites, your BTC should also remain safe. The last type of wallet is the desktop wallet which is considerably more secure than the other two options. It is installed on your laptop or personal computer, and the program can work without a connection to the Internet. But, again, you need an Internet connection when you want to invest your BTC and use them on online shopping sites. Another vulnerability of the desktop wallet is computer viruses.

Trustworthy Trading Sites

If you decided to invest in BTC and trade online, then it is equally important to pick a secure and trustworthy online trading site. As we said, there are a lot of trading sites that are accessible in just a couple of clicks, so make sure to pick one after you’ve carried out in-depth research.

One example is an automated trading site Bitcoin Rush which is perfect for anyone that’s just starting out in the crypto market. The automated software is based on cutting-edge Artificial Intelligence technology, and it performs the trading for you. Another advantage is that you can start investing by making a deposit of $250. Here you can earn up to $750 on a daily basis.

Cold Storage Options

Another way of making sure your BTC are safe, especially when you’re looking to store them for a longer period of time, is cold storage options. They are not suitable for online trading and shopping because they are not connected to the Internet.

The most sophisticated wallet is the hardware wallet, which is specifically created to store BTC. Another option is paper wallets which are a bit dated but are still useful for some Bitcoin owners. On the paper wallet, you have your private key, public key, your QR code which is previously randomly generated by software online. Lastly, there are even sound wallets that used audio technology to keep your BTC safe.

Summary

Generally, the web wallet and mobile wallet are more popular when it comes to online purchases and trading because they are convenient to use. But the desktop wallet also has its own advantages. Moreover, you can back up your BTC by investing in cold storage options like a hardware wallet, for example. However, you also need to make sure you have a good antivirus and you’re signing up on reliable and encrypted websites.