Arox Capital allows trading multiple CFD assets based on indices, shares, commodities, and FX, while also covering a wide variety of cryptocurrencies. The platform allows trading both Bit and alt coins and provides traders from around the world in countries like The UK, EEA and Australia access to competitive trading services.

Arox Capital was founded in 2018 with its headquarters located in London and has multiple global office locations which allow them to serve customers in over 150 different countries. Arox Capital has received multiple awards for their service quality, but they do not rest on their laurels and continue to improve and upgrade their services and offerings.

Arox Capital offers secure trading for Cryptocurrencies, including known security tools such as encrypted SSL, mandatory whitelisting features for Bitcoin addresses, hardware security modules, multi-sig technology for cold storage of digital assets and 2FA.

At CryptoVevo, we are happy to provide this review of Arox Capital for traders who are curious about what this brand has to offer. With Arox Capital, customers can enjoy crypto trading in multiple currencies as part of a comprehensive trading system that is designed to provide for any need or want a trader may have.

Arox Capital’s Trading Platforms

With Arox Capital, traders can choose the best option for their style of trading thanks to the multitude of platforms available. The company uses software that is trusted industry-wide, including the popular MetaTrader 4.

MetaTrader 4 allows traders who trade in crypto to take advantage of all the benefits and trading features that this popular platform provides, such as multiple execution modes, advanced charting, the use of EAs and risk management, to name a few.

Another offering by Arox Capital is Sirix, a WebTrader tool, a browser-based software that has received consistent good feedback from traders worldwide. No installation is required with this platform, which can be easily accessed through the company’s website.

The combination of these platforms allows Arox Capital to ensure traders a user-centric experience while gaining access to multiple markets at any location.

Trading on Mobile

Want to have the ability to stay up to date on market conditions and trade from anywhere at anytime via your mobile device? Arox Capital has you covered with their Mobile Trader solution. This solution is similar WebTrader, insofar as it is also a browser-based solution, however Arox Capital’s Mobile Trader solution is specifically optimized for use on mobile devices. Mobile Trader allows users to open or close trades and helps them monitor developments in the market while on the move.

For many retail cryptocurrency traders, Increased market volatility can be challenging, and this is why Arox Capital provides a user-friendly mobile solution that also contains features such as tools for risk management, advanced charting and indicators.



Trading Cryptocurrency

Arox Capital provides traders the ability to trade cryptocurrencies with both Bitcoin (BTC) and Bitcoin Cash (BCH), Ether (ETH), Ethereum Classic (ETC), Cardano (ADA), EOS (EOS), Dash (DASH), Neo (NEO), Litecoin (LTC), Tron (TRX), MIOTA (MIOTA), ZCash (ZEC), Monero (XMR), XEM (XEM) and XRP (XRP). Traders may trade these tokens against fiat currencies such as EUR, USD, and AUD (limited to Bitcoin only). Arox Capital also enables access to other options in XMR, ETH or BTC.

When it comes to trading accounts, Arox Capital offers 5 different account types (Bronze, Silver, Gold, Platinum, and Diamond). Each account contains different trading features and conditions that are subject to the account tier. Due to regulations, traders who reside in the EU will need to be categorized as either retail traders or professional traders, and that as a result trading conditions may vary, primarily for retail traders.

With Arox Capital, Funding options are available via credit or debit card, various e-wallets and wire transfers. With a Bronze account, traders gain access to an entry level set of trading features that will help them get started. This account type requires a minimum deposit is €200.

KYC requirements are in place to ensure maximum security, which will require users to provide an official identification document showing their address to prove their identity and proof of payment for credit card transactions before they can make a withdrawal from their trading account.

Summing up Arox Capital’s Offer

As the rush to invest in cryptocurrencies continues to make crypto instruments some of the most actively traded in the market, Arox Capital provides its customers with the ability to trade long or short on some of the most sought-after tokens in the market.

Arox Capital was founded in 2018 and has enjoyed a sustained period of growth in what amounts to a relatively short time period, winning industry awards and positioning itself as one of the most trusted providers available when it comes to trading in crypto.