Bitcoin: Martin Lewis gives advice on cryptocurrencies

top stories direct to your inbox SUBSCRIBE Invalid email Sign up to receive our rundown of the day'sdirect to your inbox When you subscribe we will use the information you provide to send you these newsletters. Sometimes they'll include recommendations for other related newsletters or services we offer. Our Privacy Notice explains more about how we use your data, and your rights. You can unsubscribe at any time.

After reaching a record a few days ago, Bitcoin is dropping, along with other popular cryptocurrencies. Bitcoin fell 10.1 percent to $54,743.57 (£39,295.76) as of 7.30am in New York on Sunday, after declining as much as 15.1 percent to $51,707.51 (£37,116.43) in the Asian market at the same time. Online reports attributed the plunge to speculation the US Treasury may crack down on money laundering that is carried out through digital assets.

Co-founder and former CEO of Microsoft, Bill Gates, is reported to believe things will only get worse as time goes on. Stock market analysis YouTube channel MHFIN claimed: “Gates has been talking about the cryptocurrency for quite a while. “It’s pretty obvious he’s not a fan." Mr Gates is not the only American billionaire who is against the cryptocurrency, though. Warren Buffett, chairman and CEO of Berkshire Hathaway, has repeatedly said Bitcoin is a bad investment.

Warren Buffett blasted Bitcoin as a worthless delusion and 'rat poison squared'

American business magnate Bill Gates

Before the 2018 Berkshire annual meeting, he went as far as to compare the cryptocurrency to "probably rat poison square". He then told CNBC: "Bitcoin itself is creating nothing. "When you’re buying nonproductive assets, all you’re counting on is the next person is going to pay you more because they’re even more excited about another next person coming along.” Mr Buffet has something of a history of knocking the cryptocurrency. A few weeks earlier, the so-called “Oracle of Omaha” argued that investing in Bitcoin was a gamble. He said: “If you wanna gamble somebody else will come along and pay more money tomorrow, that’s one kind of game. That is not investing." JUST IN: David Cameron claimed Soviets tried to recruit him during gap year

Bitcoin

American investor Warren Buffett

Trending

Tesla CEO Elon Musk