Bill Gates says Bitcoin is a 'tour de force' in 2013

FREE now SUBSCRIBE Invalid email Make the most of your money by signing up to our newsletter fornow When you subscribe we will use the information you provide to send you these newsletters. Sometimes they'll include recommendations for other related newsletters or services we offer. Our Privacy Notice explains more about how we use your data, and your rights. You can unsubscribe at any time.

During the 2007-2008 financial crash, some institutions were deemed 'too big to fail' as they were so interconnected with their demise predicted as being too disastrous to the greater economic world. Bitcoin, the cryptocurrency which has gone from strength to strength in the past decade, is now worth more than $55,000 and has a market volume of $64bn, according to Coindesk.

As such, it could be considered that with Bitcoin being a pioneering cryptocurrency which has seen countless early investors become incredibly wealthy on the back of the meteoric rise, could be counted as being 'too big to fail'. However, on the back of the weekend which saw a 15 percent drop in the value of Bitcoin, some investors worried that an impending crash could be on the horizon. Now, some experts have stoked the fire and claim that Bitcoin is not too big to fail, and others warn of an inevitable burst in its ever-expanding bubble. David Arakelian, CTO of Bitstocks, told Express.co.uk: "The belief that currently popular financial investments are shielded from the 'too big to fail' culture is narrow-minded - they just fall harder when they do eventually collapse.

Bitcoin is NOT too big to fail 'The bubble will burst at some point'

Bitcoin saw a 15 percent price drop over the weekend

"Wise investors know that utility creates value in the long term - and that's what Bitcoin Core lacks. "Speculators will eventually dump it because it's useless from a technological standpoint, it does nothing more than allowing a store of value." Mike Hampson founder & CEO of Bishopsgate Financial, agreed with the sentiment, telling Express.co.uk: "Bitcoin investment is hugely speculative. "I would expect the price to continue to be massively volatile, as the price of the Bitcoin ’asset’ fluctuates. "From recently reaching a record high of £33,000, the price subsequently dropped 25 percent within days. READ MORE: SafeMoon: New cryptocurrency surges 130% in value – what is SafeMoon?

"This is a bubble that will burst at some point, leaving many people out of pocket."

"I have long been a Bitcoin sceptic, and remain firmly of the opinion that this is a bubble that will burst at some point, leaving many people out of pocket." Others, however, believe that Bitcoin has now made such an impact that it is now here to stay. Companies such as Tesla are now accepting payment in Bitcoin and as it becomes more incorporated in our daily lives, it will be harder to shift from the public view. Michael Kamerman, CEO of trading platform Skilling, told Express.co.uk: “Bitcoin will not step aside and 'play second fiddle' and instead continue to remain the most popular asset to speculate on for an overall view on cryptocurrencies and blockchain technologies. "As long as its real-world use cases increase and more and more 'traditional financial organisations' embrace Bitcoin, then the cryptocurrency will likely remain popular and find support with traders and investors. DON'T MISS

Bitcoin price crash: BTC plunges 8.5 percent – just days after high

What is Bitcoin, how to buy or mine coins, why is the price so high?

Dogecoin price prediction: Analyst forecasts 'upward rally'

Tesla has started accepting payment in Bitcoin

Trending