On Monday, Elon Musk sent out a tweet stating he spoke with Bitcoin miners, giving investors confidence to invest in the cryptocurrency again which caused a surge in price. Myles Udland, Brian Sozzi, and Julie Hyman break down what this move may mean for the volatile cryptocurrency market.

Video Transcript

JULIE HYMAN: Once again, maybe Elon Musk driving some stuff here. It looks like he tweeted once again. This time, he's talking once again about his new sort of favorite theme about the climate and environmental implications of cryptocurrencies. He said, he has been speaking to North American Bitcoin miners. They committed to publish current and plan renewable usage, and ask miners worldwide to do so, potentially promising.

So, there is this theme developing, and there were already groups, right, that were sort of addressing this issue. At the moment though, Myles, as I mentioned, not seeing a lot of action in cryptocurrencies. We're going to talk much later-- much more later about this with the author of that note that I referenced, but you know, there is at least momentarily a little bit of a pause in the hottest of the action.

MYLES UDLAND: Yeah, and of course, then Michael Saylor of MicroStrategy, they've had a lot of crypto to their balance sheet. Adding to Musk's tweet saying that the meeting did, in fact, happen. And basically, miners in North America are going to coordinate. I guess you could think of it, to go back to, like, old school commodities, like an OPEC-type group where they can work together to change the mining process, such that it is greener.

But I think, look, the point of the crypto cycle right now, and all crypto cycles are driven by price, is in, I mean, I don't know if it's a precarious position. I mean, personally, to me, it doesn't matter that much if the price of cryptocurrency goes up or down. But we have seen the rally itself and the price action within a number of major cryptocurrencies just look a lot less healthy over the last couple of weeks. Yesterday, we saw Bitcoin, for instance, up double digit percentages.

Story continues

And Sozzi, we always talk about volatility. And I think it often gets read through too simply as volatility means the price of things are going down, but volatility is just large chunks in price-- large changes in price at a fast rate, which can just create for very choppy, and again, unhealthy conditions within the price of an asset. And I think we're seeing that in crypto over the last couple of weeks in both directions. And I don't think anybody, even with 37,000 and some change here, I don't think anybody's particularly encouraged by what's been happening, you know, from a price standpoint, what the chart looks like now, for Bitcoin among others.

BRIAN SOZZI: No, it's a really good point, Myles, on volatility. A couple of things, though, on my crypto list for this morning. Ray Dalio in a Coinbase interview coming out and saying that he owns some Bitcoin. If you are a long time Bitcoin bill-- Bull, you're probably hanging on those comments from Bridgewater-- Bridgewater's Dalio as a validation on your thesis.

Next up, Coinbase. Another big rating call out of JP Morgan this morning here abrading the stock and [INAUDIBLE] $3.71 price target. Keep in mind, Goldman Sachs out yesterday initiating coverage with its own by rating. I believe it was a $360 price target. So, you're seeing the sell side come out here on this crypto, I would say a crash.

It's not-- it's not a correction. I mean, Bitcoin was about 64,000 and change a couple of weeks ago, trying to voice support for a company like a Coinbase that is very much reliant on the direction of crypto prices. And then overall, you know, Myles, I do find this interesting. I know you follow the crypto space very closely.

I've started to get into a lot of the crypto blogs and read them more and more. The bullishness amongst the tried and true, the long time, hardcore crypto Bulls, that doesn't seem to have changed much during this big pullback. It's interesting.

MYLES UDLAND: Yeah, I don't think that's going to, and we can leave that. I think there's reasons behind that that we can touch on another time, but I think it's interesting, Sozzi, we talk about Ray Dalio's positive commentary on Bitcoin. I'm reminded last week of Mike Novogratz was so excited that Morgan Stanley was going to have its wealth managers now out able to evangelize for Bitcoin. I think the word that Novo used was "proselytize" on behalf of cryptocurrencies.

We have banks out issuing positive research notes on Coinbase. It's funny that the crypto space now feels validated by Wall Street who is its main enemy, now coming in to say, we like coins. I just find it a little bit interesting, is all we'll say on that. That the folks against whom you have positioned yourself are now the saviors of the narrative as some other parts of it have gotten a little bit softer.

JULIE HYMAN: Well, at the same time, there's still a lot of, I think, criticism that gets leveled at Wall Street from that group. So, we'll see how that dynamic ends up playing out as time goes on.