A US university student has revealed that he squandered 10,000 Bitcoins in 2010 on a holiday.

If he’d held onto the cryptocurrency, they’d be worth $365 million (AU$470.3 million) today.

Jeremy Sturdivant, aged 19 at the time, regrets that he didn’t see the potential in crypto.

Sturdivant’s story is being retold as part of Bitcoin Pizza Day, which is celebrated annually on May 22 to recognise the first time someone used Bitcoin to make a physical purchase.

The Californian student, now aged 30, was on the receiving end of that Bitcoin transaction more than a decade ago.

Jeremy Sturdivant didn’t realise he’d stumbled into a fortune until it was too late. Credit: LinkedIn

On May 22, 2010, Sturdivant complied with a request on an obscure cryptocurrency forum.

A Florida resident, Laszlo Hanyecz, wanted two pizzas delivered to him and was willing to pay in 10,000 Bitcoins - which at the time was worth about $41 (AU$52).

Hanyecz wrote on the chat forum: “I’ll pay 10,000 Bitcoins for a couple of pizzas.. like maybe 2 large ones so I have some left over for the next day.

“I like things like onions, peppers, sausage, mushrooms, tomatoes, pepperoni, etc.. just standard stuff no weird fish topping or anything like that.

“If you’re interested please let me know and we can work out a deal.”

Sturdivant soon arrived on his doorstep with two large supreme pizzas in tow, bought from Papa Johns pizza pies.

That’s one expensive pizza. Credit: Investopedia / Twitter

Sturdivant almost immediately spent his would-be Bitcoin fortune on a holiday with his girlfriend when travelling around the US.

“If I had treated it (the Bitcoin) as an investment, I might have held on a bit longer,” he told The Telegraph.

“I would never have thought that the same number of Bitcoin would have a purchasing power on the order of real estate.”

‘No regrets’

Bitcoin has become very valuable since its launch om 2009. Credit: SOPA Images / SOPA Images/LightRocket via Gett

Laszlo Hanyecz, who gave up millions in Bitcoin because of his love of pizza, has no regrets.

“I don’t regret it. I think that it’s great that I got to be part of the early history of Bitcoin in that way,” he told Coin Telegraph in 2018.

“It’s an interesting story because everybody can kind of relate to that and be (like) - “Oh my God, you spent all of that money.”

Cryptocurrency was first invented in 2009 by a person who called themselves Satoshi Nakamoto.