Over the last few months, celebrities have been warming up to Bitcoin (BTC) and the recent rumor in the town is that American Football sensation Tom Brady is stacking up BTC in his wallet. Blockworks co-founder Jason Yanowitz was the first to tweet about the same.

Referring to Tom Brady as the GOAT, Jason asked his followers on Twitter to retweet for Brady to turn ‘laser red eyes’, an investor’s sign of their support to Bitcoin (BTC). Brady sparked further speculation by asking his 1.9 million Twitter followers whether he should really turn laser eyes.

Hmmmm should I change it?? https://t.co/w6VF35Ypgx — Tom Brady (@TomBrady) May 10, 2021

Brady’s tossing up the speculation has driven the massive attention of some of the biggest market players. Bitcoin (BTC) evangelist and investor A. Pompliano tweeted: The internet will break if @TomBrady tweets “Pay me in bitcoin”. In the recent past, several celebrity figures have extended their support for Bitcoin (BTC).

NFL Star Russell Okung Extends Support to Tom Brady

Russell Okung, the NFL Star from Carolina Panthers was among the first to accept half of his salary in Bitcoin. Okung became the first major player in any U.S. sports league to be played in Bitcoin last year. The legend asked to be paid half of his $13-million salary in Bitcoin to which the Panthers had obliged.

Since the request was accepted last December 2020, when BTC was trading around $28,000, Okung has already made a massive 100% gains as of the current BTC price. In his recent tweet extending support to Tom Brady, Okung tweets:

The internet will break if @TomBrady tweets “Paid in bitcoin.” https://t.co/l01QlbV98l — Okung 💯 (@RussellOkung) May 10, 2021

After consolidating at $55,000 over the last month, Bitcoin (BTC) is once again showing momentum. Today, the BTC price is trading above its crucial resistance of $59,000 with its market cap crossing $1.1 trillion. After a month of selling, Bitcoin addresses holding between 100 to 10,000 Bitcoins have reversed the trend and started accumulating once again, reported on-chain data provider Santiment.

🐳 Of the 16,104 #Bitcoin addresses holding between 100 to 10,000 $BTC currently, they own 9.1M $BTC ($531.3B in USD). After declining holdings from April 10 to May 4, this group is showing signs of accumulating again with 20k added $BTC the past 2 days. https://t.co/LNYBOlOQDs pic.twitter.com/SmgYm9QRw9 — Santiment (@santimentfeed) May 9, 2021

✓ Share:

Disclaimer The presented content may include the personal opinion of the author and is subject to market condition. Do your market research before investing in cryptocurrencies. The author or the publication does not hold any responsibility for your personal financial loss.