Ukraine’s Public Radio Launches Podcast With an Episode on Bitcoin

In an attempt to expand and diversify its audience, the public radio of Ukraine has recently entered the world of podcasts. Listeners have been invited to choose among a variety of topics and genres. A podcast devoted to personal finance management and financial literacy kicks off with an episode about Bitcoin.

New Radio Programs to Attract Listeners by Discussing Anything, From Crimea to Crypto

The National Public Broadcasting Company of Ukraine (NSTU) has launched several podcasts to better promote the programs of its radio stations, Ukrainian Radio, Radio Kultura, and Radio Promin. It also hopes to offer its audience exclusive content in a convenient format, including new projects such as documentaries and conversations with interesting guests. Dmytro Khorkin, Board Member at the NSTU responsible for radio programs, elaborated:

For NSTU radio stations, podcasts are an additional opportunity to reach out to an audience that consumes audio content through digital platforms. They are created and launched in cooperation with the Digital Platforms Department.

The podcasts are available online on Soundcloud, Google Podcasts, Apple Podcasts, and Anchor. The programs deal with various social, economic, and political topics, producing anything from historic audio documentaries about the Chernobyl disaster and the 90s crisis, to in-studio discussions on contemporary challenges such as the rampant corruption in modern Ukraine and the political struggles of rights activists in Russia-annexed Crimea.

‘100 Thousand’ Podcast Answers Questions About Cryptocurrency

How to earn, spend and earn again even more money is the key question a podcast called “100 Thousand” aims to answer. The authors of the program, led by Ukrainian Radio host Roman Kolyada, want to help you learn how to plan your budget, save intelligently and increase your funds through smart investments. The main purpose of the project is to improve financial literacy among Ukrainians and that’s probably the reason why the podcast launched with an episode devoted to decentralized digital money:

In the first episode we talk about cryptocurrencies. Why are they rising so fast? What’s the difference between cryptocurrency and traditional money? And most importantly, is it worth investing your savings in crypto?

Cryptocurrencies have seen strong growth in the past months and many Ukrainians would like to know if bitcoin and other digital currencies have a place in their savings and investment portfolios. The first guest of the podcast, Yevhen Nevmerzhytskyi, who holds a Ph.D. in economics, tries his best to answer all these questions for the audience.

Ukrainians have a generally positive attitude towards cryptocurrencies and their country is among the world’s leaders in terms of adoption. A report by the blockchain forensics firm Chainalysis ranked Ukraine first among 154 nations in last year’s edition of its Global Crypto Adoption Index. The government in Kiev is also open toward the digital assets space and works on a project to launch its own CBDC in close cooperation with members of the crypto industry.

What do you think about the podcasts launched by Ukraine’s public radio? Let us know in the comments section below.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not a direct offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or a recommendation or endorsement of any products, services, or companies. Bitcoin.com does not provide investment, tax, legal, or accounting advice. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.