Shark Tank’s Barbara Corcoran Advocates Getting Rich by Investing in Real Estate, Not Cryptocurrencies

Shark Tank star Barbara Corcoran, the entrepreneur who turned a $1,000 loan into a billion-dollar real estate empire, says she will get rich by investing in real estate, not cryptocurrencies. The American investor takes every extra dime she has and puts it in real estate, emphasizing that she will get rich nice and slow this way.

Investing in Real Estate vs. Cryptocurrency

Real estate entrepreneur Barbara Corcoran shared her view on cryptocurrency and bitcoin in an interview with TMZ this week while out and about in Union Square in New York City.

Corcoran is the American investor famed for building a billion-dollar real estate empire with just a $1,000 loan. She is also a star of the popular ABC television show “Shark Tank” and the author of the best seller book “Shark Tales: How I Turned $1,000 into a Billion Dollar Business.”

Firstly, she was asked if “Cryptocurrency is all the rage right now.” The shark tank star promptly replied, “of course.”

Given that she is an old-school investor, Corcoran was asked whether she thinks that investors should be getting into cryptocurrencies right now.

“I have so many smart business guys I know that have hopped on it and want me on the train with them. I don’t. I take every dime I have extra put into real estate. It’s a slow way to get rich,” she explained, elaborating:

I know I’m going to get rich nice and slow by investing in real estate.

Meanwhile, her fellow Shark Tank stars, Kevin O’Leary and Mark Cuban, have embraced cryptocurrencies. O’Leary has put 3% of his portfolio in bitcoin and ether, and is also looking to invest in companies that produce “clean” bitcoins. Earlier this month, he explained that he will not buy “blood coins from China.”

Cuban said in March that bitcoin is better than gold. His NBA team, the Dallas Mavericks, has been accepting the meme cryptocurrency dogecoin for tickets and merchandise sales. He has a portfolio of bitcoin, ethereum, and other cryptocurrencies, and has invested in companies in the crypto space.

Do you agree with Barbara Corcoran that real estate is a better investment than cryptocurrency? Let us know in the comments section below.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not a direct offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or a recommendation or endorsement of any products, services, or companies. Bitcoin.com does not provide investment, tax, legal, or accounting advice. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.