Player Bags Big Win on ‘Elvis Frog in Vegas’ Slot at Bitcoin.com Games, Encashes $110,000 in BTC

Bitcoin.com Games brings $110,000 worth of smiles and happiness to this player!

Massive Win on ‘Elvis Frog in Vegas’

Earlier in March, a fortunate player cashed out $160,000 in two epic winning rounds on The Dog House Megaways slot at Bitcoin.com Games.

Now, another lucky player has bagged over $110,000 from a small bet of 0.0015 BTC on one of the most popular slot games on the casino – Elvis Frog in Vegas. With a 5×3 layout, this entertaining slot sees the titular character taking to the microphone with his female frog side-kick to put players in just the right mood for big wins.

1,195x multiplier applied to player’s bets resulting in a total win amount of $110,000 on Elvis Frog in Vegas slot!.

The big win left the player with an experience that is reported to be one of the happiest moments in the player’s life. Astonishing that a bet worth such a small amount of BTC can flip the fortune in anyone’s favor. The game that the player landed a winning round in, is able to dish out a win as big as 2,500x the initial bet value. This means that at its maximum, the game is able to reward players with $250,000 on a bet as small as $100!

Huge amounts of fortunes can be made on such games where big money multipliers can land winning rounds worth over 100,000x the initial bet amount, let alone the free rounds that are given as bonuses across the board.

The premium crypto casino is also host to regular promotions and tournaments where players can take home extra bonuses and big wins from jackpots – all in Bitcoin, the preferred cryptocurrency of online gaming enthusiasts.

Play Elvis Frog in Vegas now or check out other games with big jackpots and bonuses that you can exclusively play on Bitcoin.com Games.

This is a promoted post. Learn more on how to reach our audience here. Read the disclaimer below.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not a direct offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or a recommendation or endorsement of any products, services, or companies. Bitcoin.com does not provide investment, tax, legal, or accounting advice. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.