5. A beginner’s guide to bitcoin: what are “altcoins” and are any worth investing in?

2. A beginner’s guide to bitcoin: the technical genius behind bitcoin and the blockchain – and how it all works

If I only had a bitcoin for every time I’d heard someone say: “I don’t understand it”. Even after I explain bitcoin – and I’m pretty good at explaining stuff – many still shake their head and say “I still don’t get it”. Often I think this is wilful ignorance; bitcoin does take some effort to get to grips with. The concept of a money system that is not state-issued is hard for many to wrap their heads around, and the tech can be a little baffling to non-techies, so the easy route for many is to say, “I don’t understand it” and walk away. Don’t be one of those people. Simple explanations of bitcoin may leave you with more questions than answers. But that is all part of the process of coming to terms with the idea of a new system of money. You don’t need to understand bitcoin to use it I will explain the tech in simple terms below. But the first thing I would stress – and I am so keen to stress this that I am going to put it in bold italics – is this: you do not need to understand the tech in order to use it.

• Do you understand how hypertext transfer protocol works? No. And yet you still use the world wide web every day. • Do you understand how simple mail transfer protocol works? No. And yet how often do you send emails? • Do you understand the combustion engine? Or the science of antibiotics? Or nuclear fission? And yet you drive a car, take medicine and use electricity. I will also say this: do you know how money – and I am talking about national currencies such as the pound, dollar or euro – really works? Do you know how it is created? Do you understand the difference between M1, M2 and M3 money supply? Do you understand interest rates? Most of us don’t (and even those who do, still don’t appear to understand how all of these things interact with each other). And yet we all use it. So if you do not understand the tech – and in all probability you won’t – that does not mean you should not use bitcoin. Do not let that be your excuse. Nevertheless, here we explain, with devastating clarity, once and for all, what bitcoin is. Bitcoin is a new system of money designed for the internet. Let’s shorten that to: bitcoin is money for the internet. The internet is, essentially, a borderless medium. I’m in the UK. I can communicate with someone in the US, Australia, South America, Asia or Africa as instantly as though they were in my own country. I can send them messages, photos, videos, any kind of content, and they receive it instantly. Yet, until bitcoin, I couldn’t send them money with the same ease. I would have to go through Paypal, or a bank or a credit card company. There would be foreign exchange costs, money transfer costs, regulatory processes.

With bitcoin I can send money across the net, direct from person A to person B, just as I send messages. It might be tiny sums, but it could also be billions. (For example, only recently, I saw that somebody had transferred 14,892 bitcoins. That’s over half a billion dollars in value. I know that that value was transacted – the transaction was broadcast on the blockchain. But I have no idea who sent the money, or to which location it was sent. I rather suspect it was Elon Musk – but who knows? I also know that the cost of the transfer was a few dollars, and that the transfer was almost instantaneous). How did bitcoin come about? Bitcoin was invented in 2008 in reaction to all the money-printing policies that were adopted to bail out the banking system. Bitcoin’s creator, the (still) anonymous Satoshi Nakamoto, wanted to create a system of money that was apolitical and resistant to state actors. In other words, a politician or central banker couldn’t start printing this currency, even if they deemed the circumstances demanded it. Bitcoin’s inflation rate is set out in its code with full transparency. Moreover, Nakamoto wanted to design a deflationary system of money. Central bankers and governments can create pounds or dollars when it suits them. Thus fiat money is an inherently inflationary system of money – the supply of money never stops growing. Nakamoto wanted to code a system of money that is finite. There will only ever be 21 million bitcoins. By making it finite, by limiting supply, you make it desirable. Like gold, its rarity makes it precious.