Toronto, April 19, 2021 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Not for distribution to U.S. newswire services or for dissemination in the United States.

This announcement and the information contained herein is restricted and is not for release, publication, or distribution, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly in, or into or from the United States or any other jurisdiction in which the same would be unlawful. Further, this announcement is for information purposes only and shall not constitute an offer to sell or issue or the solicitation to buy, subscribe for or otherwise acquire any securities of 3iQ CoinShares Bitcoin ETF in any jurisdiction in which any such offer or solicitation would be unlawful.

3iQ Corp. ("3iQ"), the largest digital asset manager in Canada with more than C$2.5 billion in assets under management, today announced the launch of the 3iQ CoinShares Bitcoin ETF (the “Bitcoin ETF"). The Bitcoin ETF has closed its initial offering of units and will begin trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange ("TSX") today in Canadian dollars under the symbol “BTCQ” and in U.S. dollars under the symbol “BTCQ.U”.

“Today is yet another milestone for the 3iQ team, bitcoin enthusiasts, and investors across Canada,” said Fred Pye, Chairman & CEO of 3iQ. “Backed by deep industry expertise, we are thrilled to be adding the 3iQ CoinShares Bitcoin ETF to our offerings and especially to partner with CoinShares.”

The Bitcoin ETF’s investment objectives are to seek to provide holders of units of the Bitcoin ETF with: (a) exposure to digital currency bitcoin and the daily price movements of the U.S. dollar price of bitcoin, and (b) the opportunity for long-term capital appreciation.

The Bitcoin ETF’s management fee is 1.00%. Initially 3iQ intends to absorb any other expenses in excess of 0.25% such that the Bitcoin ETF’s Management Expense Ratio (MER) will not exceed 1.25%, and will be lower if the total expenses fall below 1.25%. At this level, currently the Bitcoin ETF has the lowest published MER of any publicly-offered bitcoin ETF in Canada.

About 3iQ Corp.

Founded in 2012, 3iQ is Canada’s largest digital asset investment fund manager with more than C$2.5 billion in assets under management. 3iQ was the first Canadian investment fund manager to offer a public bitcoin investment fund, The Bitcoin Fund (TSX: QBTC, QBTC.U), and a public Ether investment fund, The Ether Fund (TSX: QETH.UN, QETH.U). 3iQ offers investors convenient and familiar investment products to gain exposure to digital assets. For more information about 3iQ and its digital asset investment funds, visit www.3iQ.ca or follow us on Twitter @3iQ_corp.

Please read the prospectus before investing. Important information about the Bitcoin ETF is contained in the prospectus. Copies of the prospectus may be obtained from 3iQ Corp. or at www.sedar.com.

You will usually pay brokerage fees to your dealer if you purchase or sell units of the Bitcoin ETF on a stock exchange or other alternative Canadian trading system (an “exchange”). If units of the Bitcoin ETF are purchased or sold on an exchange, investors may pay more than the current net asset value when buying units of the Bitcoin ETF and may receive less than the current net asset value when selling them.

Commissions, trailing commissions, management fees and expenses all may be associated with mutual fund investments. Please read the prospectus before investing. Mutual funds are not guaranteed, their values change frequently, and past performance may not be repeated.

IMPORTANT NOTICES

THIS ANNOUNCEMENT AND THE INFORMATION CONTAINED THEREIN, IS RESTRICTED AND IS NOT FOR PUBLICATION, RELEASE OR DISTRIBUTION, IN WHOLE OR IN PART, DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY, IN OR INTO OR FROM THE UNITED STATES OR ANY JURISDICTION IN WHICH THE SAME WOULD BE UNLAWFUL.

This announcement should not be distributed, forwarded, transmitted or otherwise disseminated in or into the United States. This announcement does not constitute an offer to sell or issue or the solicitation of an offer to buy or subscribe for securities in the United States or any other jurisdiction. The Bitcoin ETF’s securities have not been and will not be registered under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), or under the applicable securities laws of any state or other jurisdiction of the United States, and may not be offered, sold, resold, transferred or delivered, directly or indirectly within, into or in the United States, absent registration or an applicable exemption from, or except in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act and in compliance with the securities laws of any relevant state or other jurisdiction of the United States. Neither this announcement, nor the fact that it has been disseminated, shall form the basis of, or be relied upon in connection with, any future information that we distribute