Consider, for example, climate regulation. When the Democrats controlled the presidency and both houses of Congress in 2009, the American Clean Energy and Security Act (also called the Waxman-Markey bill), which would have reduced greenhouse gas emissions, was blocked by the Senate. Yet a great deal of progress was made on climate regulation during President Barack Obama’s terms. The reason is that he unilaterally implemented climate regulations, drawing largely on authority to regulate pollution granted to the Environmental Protection Agency by the Clean Air Act of 1970. Mr. Biden will want to advance the climate agenda by expanding and strengthening these regulations.

Another urgent issue is immigration. In 2010, Congress debated the Dream Act, which would have granted legal status to people who entered the country illegally as children. Again, the Senate blocked the bill. Mr. Obama subsequently granted protections to so-called Dreamers, using his unilateral authority under the immigration laws. Mr. Biden has proposed an ambitious immigration reform to Congress, but legislation might take months or years — or, as has happened so often, it might never pass. He is using his unilateral authority to reverse the travel ban against certain countries and other Trump-era executive actions that burdened undocumented immigrants and other foreigners, but if legislation fails, he might do more with his executive authority to make progress on his immigration goals.

Mr. Obama enjoyed two major legislative successes: the Dodd-Frank Act, which strengthened financial regulation, and the Affordable Care Act, which subsidized health insurance. But when changes were needed for both laws to correct technical errors, Congress balked. Mr. Obama kept the laws alive through unilateral actions, some of them on the boundary of legality.

True, when Mr. Trump took power, he reversed some of Mr. Obama’s unilateral actions, causing damage to the environment, the immigration system, health insurance and financial regulation. He also used his unilateral powers to unleash a destructive trade war. But the point is that now, with Mr. Biden in the Oval Office, it will be difficult — if not impossible — to reverse Mr. Trump’s reversals unless Mr. Biden has the same powers to engage in unilateral action that Mr. Trump, Mr. Obama and earlier presidents enjoyed.

Liberals also complain there are too many emergency statutes, which give the president enhanced powers to implement programs based on a declaration of emergency that is mostly unreviewable by courts. And yet a major complaint against Mr. Trump was that he failed to fully use his emergency powers to address the Covid-19 pandemic; he could have, for example, increased restrictions on movement to help curtail the contagion and done more to help states buy protective equipment and to distribute vaccines. For Mr. Biden to follow through on his plan to formulate a more aggressive response to the pandemic, he will need to rely on the emergency powers that Mr. Trump disregarded.