Bitcoin was launched back in 2009, and since then, the cryptocurrency has only grown in the right direction. With new cryptocurrencies emerging, many people are wondering whether Bitcoin still has a bright future in the market they were hoping for. Of course, it’s only natural to wonder about these things. Since Bitcoin investing has become so popular lately, millions of people out there are hoping their investments will be worth it in the end. Luckily, we’re here to tell you that they undoubtedly will. Although it’s been a decade since its release Bitcoin is still holding strong, and here are the reasons why it’s not going anywhere as far as we can see.

Above the Competition

It might seem strange to hear that Bitcoin is still the top dog when it comes to cryptocurrencies. In the last couple of years, Cryptocurrencies have become quite the trend, with many new ones rising up and quickly climbing through the ranks. You’ll find names such as Litecoin, Ethereum, and Chainlink being thrown around frequently in the world of crypto. All of these new cryptocurrencies are very popular among the masses, but while many of them do have booming markets and large user bases, none of them even come close to the popularity that Bitcoin has amassed.

To some, it may be surprising that Bitcoin is still standing strong at the top, but there are some very good reasons for this. The main reason why Bitcoin is still at the top is the fact that its volatility is unmatched. Sure, investing in other cryptocurrencies can certainly make you some solid returns, but investing in Bitcoin can make you an overnight millionaire! Bitcoin’s high volatility means that its price can rise drastically in a very short time, giving investors the chance to make massive returns if they wait for the right moments to buy and sell.

The Bitcoin Trading Craze

As we already mentioned, Bitcoin has gone through quite a lot of changes over the years. Possibly the best change is the evolution of Bitcoin trading. These days, Bitcoin trading is a pretty easy task, which is quite the contrast from what people expected back in the day. Thanks to trading platforms like the bitqs app, traders have a chance to use a plethora of helpful tools to guide them through the process. These tools can achieve some incredible feats, including an automated trading process that works off of advanced AI trading algorithms.

Of course, all of this is helped immensely by the information you can find about Bitcoin online. With a simple internet search, you can look up great trading tips, advanced trading strategies, and more than enough info to become a Bitcoin expert within a week! For newbies, this may seem like the norm, but back when it was first released information on Bitcoin was very scarce. This put a lot of people off as they had no idea what it was or how it worked! With Bitcoin trading growing by the day, it’s safe to assume that Bitcoin has at least a few more good years ahead of it.

Insane Price Predictions

It’s no secret that one of the favorite things to do for a lot of Bitcoin lovers is to come up with price predictions for their favorite cryptocurrency. While most of us are simply throwing around random numbers we’re hoping for, there are many experts out there who take this very seriously. As it stands, the majority of trading experts agree that the price of Bitcoin is slated to rise in the next couple of years. Some of these predictions are pretty wild, claiming massive sums that we can only dream of, while others are more down to earth, yet still very good news for investors!

Growing Availability

Since the very beginning, there has been one thing, in particular, plaguing the Bitcoin community. Of course, we’re talking about the very limited availability of stores and services that accept Bitcoin as a payment option. As we mentioned briefly, Bitcoin did run into some trouble in the beginning. With information about it nowhere to be found, most people looked at Bitcoin as something scary. The misinformation that was being spread about it didn’t exactly help either, which led many to believe that staying away from it was the best option.

Thankfully, the majority of this is cleared up now, and Bitcoin enthusiasts can finally see what they’ve been waiting for from the start. The growing popularity of Bitcoin has given many retailers and service providers a new perspective on it. You can now use Bitcoin to buy the latest and greatest titles on the Xbox, grab a coffee at Starbucks, and even do some redecorating with the help of Home Depot!