Indane Combo Double Bottle Connection: Indian oil Corporation Limited (IOCL) has made big announcement regarding Indane gas cylinder connection. Under Indane's Combo Double Bottle Connection, now one can avail Indane 5 kg chhotu cylinder along with 14.2 kg Indane cylinder, said IOCL. This facility will go on to help Indane gas consumers in the times of crisis as they can keep 5 kg chhotu cylinder as backup and use it when they need it the most. This also solves delay in delivery of LPG cylinders due to various reasons. All one has to do is to apply for this double connection. For further queries about this connection one can contact their Indane distrbutor.

See Zee Business Live TV Streaming Below:

"The compact, 5 kg chhotu cylinder is the perfect solution when your bigger cylinder runs out. Thanks to Indane's Combo Double Bottle Connection, you can now avail a cylinder of your choosing to keep as a backup!," Tweeted IOCL.

The compact, 5 kg chhotu cylinder is the perfect solution when your bigger cylinder runs out. Thanks to Indane's Combo Double Bottle Connection, you can now avail a cylinder of your choosing to keep as a backup! pic.twitter.com/e9Lad9cH7U — Indian Oil Corp Ltd (@IndianOilcl) April 3, 2021

Frequently Asked Questions (as per IOCL)

1. What is Chhotu?

Chhotu is a 5kg FTL (Free trade LPG) cylinder marketed by IndianOil to cater to needs of its customers.

2. Do I need a local address proof to buy 5kg FTL cylinder?

No address proof is required. Customer can avail 5kg FTL cylinder by submitting any identity proof recognised by the Government.

3. Do I need to pay any security deposit while purchasing 5kg FTL cylinder?

No security deposit is required for purchase of 5kg FTL cylinder.

4. Is Chhotu available in my city / where can I get Chhotu?

Chhotu is available is almost every district across the country. You can avail Chhotu from Indane distributor in your area or appointed Point of Sales such as IndianOil Retail Outlets, Kirana stores, and local supermarkets.

5. Can Chhotu be delivered to my home?

Yes. Customers can avail home delivery of Chhotu through Point of Sales by paying an additional delivery charge of Rs. 25/refill (as on 1st December 2020)