Happy Wednesday MarketWatchers. Don’t miss these top stories.

It might take 60 days more to process returns left over from last year, according to the IRS commissioner’s ‘conservative estimate’ Read More

When was the last time you saw Paris? As the EU relaxes travel restrictions, American tourists still face these hurdles

No date has been given for the relaxation of existing measures. Read More

Almost half of parents say they’ll take on credit-card debt to pay for child care — others avoid day care due to COVID

‘Monthly child care costs can feel like an extra mortgage payment.’ Read More

As bitcoin and dogecoin plummet, college students and graduates insist they’re going long on crypto

If you’ve been waiting to say, ‘I told you so,’ to a young crypto investor, you may be waiting a while. Read More

My wife and I defrauded the government by hiding income. Now we’re divorcing, and she’s threatening to ruin us both

‘She left me for her pandemic boyfriend. She was caught at our vacation home with him.’ Read More

My siblings live in our late mother’s home. They’re forcing me to sign over my share if I don’t pay for renovations. What can I do?

‘I do not want to sign away the only thing my mom left me.’ Read More

Is renting cheaper than owning a home? Here’s the answer in America’s 50 biggest cities

A new report from LendingTree explores how the costs of owning a home compare for those who rent versus those who bought a home. Read More

How much should you tip post-pandemic?

For the past year, whenever Jillian Seroka picks up her usual almond milk cortado from Oslo Coffee Roasters in the West Village neighborhood of Manhattan, she is presented with a prompt on the point-of-sale iPad asking how much gratuity to add on top of her $6 bill. She typically tips $3. Read More

My boyfriend inherited a home and $700K. He pays me $500 monthly rent. Should I ask him for $86K to pay off my condo?

‘I am 65 and get a monthly pension of $800 and receive $1,800 Social Security every month. I have no savings, and own two properties.’ Read More

Naomi Campbell, 50, welcomes a daughter — as more older women become parents

‘There is no greater love,’ the supermodel wrote on Instagram. Read More