This dip will mature the markets more and ensure that people are aware there will be downtrends as well as up trends in the sector and one should invest with a long-term view point rather than for making a quick buck, says, Founder & CEO,We have not seen a dip of this magnitude in crypto for long. The last 12 months saw an upward trend for the whole crypto sector in general. It is unsettling for a lot of investors but what we are seeing and the reason why most of the exchanges are under heavy load is because there are a lot of new people and a lot of new buying pressure is coming in and that will help the markets to bounce back.The next few days will give us a clearer picture but there definitely seems to be a lot of buying pressure as well. There is a lot of panic selling happening and a lot of profit-booking is also taking place for those who entered Bitcoin about a year ago. It is technically at least three to four times higher than the price we saw in 2020. So it is a combination of profit booking and panic selling that has led to the crash but definitely buy pressure being seen. Only time will tell whether that will be able to hold the market and move it upwards.WazirX is still in the middle of scaling up and while a portion of our users are able to access it, a portion of users are not. So, we are ramping up. We should be back 100% for everyone very soon.But the traffic that we have seen is unprecedented. It is not a traffic that comes in over a period of several hours but rather in matter of minutes and where everyone logged on to the website to try to buy or sell due to the market conditions. This is what every exchange experiences and I would not be surprised to see top exchanges struggling with scaling up their services because end of the day there are only so many resources that are readily available and one has to make a way for new resources and that takes time. It is between this time where you spin up new resources that the servers become unresponsive to a lot of new requests that come in.One important thing to understand is that it is not the first time that the crypto sector has seen a dip in a 24-hour period. It has been happening over several years. If you study the history of the whole Bitcoin price movement, you will always see these dips happening. In fact, on every peak year, you will see a dip as well, followed by higher peaks.So it sure is a massive dip, but whoever held on to crypto for a three-year period has never lost money. So short-term investors might feel the heat but with a three-year plus horizon, it will average out the price. In a way, this sort of correction is important because it also brings in some sort of sanity and some expectations that things have been put in place. Over the last 12 months, the expectations were that it is only going to go up. This dip will mature the markets more and ensure that people are aware there will be downtrends as well as up trends in the sector and one should invest with a long-term view point rather than for making a quick buck.Overall, it is going to just make the industry stronger than probably the perception was in the last 12 months.