Bitcoin is in a bear market. Let’s not beat about the bush, or try to spin it. The price is falling – it fell 10% just while I was asleep last night and it’s already almost 40% off its highs. If it looks like a duck, swims like a duck, and quacks like a duck, then it probably is a duck. It’s a bear market. So what happens next? How long does it go on for? Where does it fall to? And, most importantly, what do we do? Bitcoin is on the slide. But what do you do about it? Bitcoin, as we know, is a highly speculative asset. It is not only a new technology, but a new technology that is money. A more “bubbly” asset has never been designed. It thus evokes all the emotions that come with a speculative mania. In fact, it heightens them to the “nth” degree. Massive FOMO (fear of missing out) on the way up, as well as elation, exhilaration and delusion.

When it goes into a bear market, the opposite happens, with equal emotional intensity. I don’t know what the opposite to FOMO is – GMOOTT, maybe (get me out of this thing). There will be denial (hence all the arguing, especially with Elon Musk), fear, capitulation and despair. Just as many lose perspective on the way up – “it’s going to a million dollars!” – so will many lose perspective on the way down – “it’s finished, bitcoin is over!” Lots of bad decisions are going to get made. In fact, many bad decisions have already been made – buying near the top. Now it’s about damage limitation; do you sell now, take a loss and buy back lower? Easy to say, hard to do. The particularly hard thing to do is the buying back lower bit. Bitcoin goes to $30,000. Do you buy now? “No, I think it’s going to $20,000”. It goes to $20,000. At this point pessimism is so pronounced that it is very, very difficult to persuade yourself to buy. So you don’t. Then bitcoin reverses and before you know it, it’s back above $40,000, and you’ve lost your position. So do you “hodl”? This is the tried and tested practice of holding no matter what. It’s been the most effective bitcoin trading strategy since its inception 12 years ago; perhaps it will be again. Who knows? But hodling is very hard too. It takes extraordinary will power to hold through two years of bear market. How much further could bitcoin fall? Here are the key technical levels Just before I went to bed last night bitcoin was sitting around $43,500. It fell $5,000 in the time I was asleep – that’s over 10%.

Shortly before shuteye, I was posting on Twitter that if $42,000 doesn’t hold, then $30,000 comes into play. Technical analysis 101 says that’s the next line of support. After $30,000, then $20,000 comes into play. $20,000 is the old high from 2017 – a monumental price point. It would be very typical of bitcoin to come back to that level, touch it and then resume normal business – to kiss $20,000 goodbye. I’m not saying that will happen, because I don’t know. I’m just speculating (and with words, not money). Heck, I wouldn’t rule out going all the way back to $12,000. But bitcoin could just as easily turn up and rally from here. You know what it’s like. The bull market was tired. Bear markets in bitcoin are normal. They are as vicious as the bull markets are epic, they are part of the territory and that is where we are now. The Financial Times will be all over it, so will the BBC and The Economist. There’ll be stories about lost fortunes. Many of the scams will be exposed. There will be calls for greater government intervention and regulation. But all the while the tech will evolve and improve. I would say we have moved on from the “denial” phase and are now in the “fear” stage. We still have “capitulation” and “despair” to go. That is also when we reach peak gloating from “nocoiners”. This bull market hasn’t been quite as epic as previous bitcoin bull markets, so the corresponding bear market probably won’t see the usual 85%-90% correction (I think there have been five of these so far). But a bear market is still a bear market.