Crowny Listing on AscendEX

press release

PRESS RELEASE. AscendEX, formerly BitMax, an industry-leading digital asset trading platform built by Wall Street quant trading veterans, has announced the listing of the Crowny Token (CRWNY) under the pair USDT/CRWNY on Apr 21 at 1:00 p.m. UTC.

Crowny has created a new platform by aligning blockchain and digital assets with the world of advertising. The platform will allow brands to develop effective campaigns to reach audiences who are enticed to listen to their messages. Users will be able to connect to their favorite brands through a smartphone application without the risk of privacy breaches.

It has become a challenge for brands to reach and interact with their potential customers through digital and traditional media. The Crowny proposition brings the right tools to help advertisers reach customers with ease while rewarding the customers with tokens for engaging with ads. Rewards play a key role on the Crowny platform driving users to interact with brands.

Crowny offers a variety of product features, including a free loyalty system for business owners, and the most compelling part of their product offering is the CRWNY token. Users can convert tokens to fiat currencies, use them to purchase products, or set them aside to be held in a wallet. The CRWNY token will first launch on the Ethereum blockchain as an ERC-20 token. Crowny will be using the Wormhole bridge to Solana to support the functionalities on their platform.

Crowny connects and rewards users for engaging with their favorite brands, supporting brands to reach the right target audience while protecting users’ privacy. Users receive relevant content and offers based on their preferences, allowing them to earn CRWNY and loyalty points for interacting with those brands.

About AscendEX

Originally founded in 2018 as BitMax.io, AscendEx is a leading crypto and digital asset financial platform catering to both professional and retail traders. Our venue offers spot, futures, margin trading and staking products and incorporates key elements from the DeFi space to foster a unique market structure for users. AscendEx is led by a team of Wall Street veterans who have applied traditional markets’ rigor to create a robust, secure, and reliable experience for all participants; and a consistent source of liquidity for primary offerings.

For more information and updates, please visit:

Website: https://ascendex.com

Twitter: https://twitter.com/AscendEX_Global

Telegram: https://t.me/AscendEXEnglish

Medium: https://medium.com/ascendex

About Crowny

Crowny has created a new platform within the world of advertising. A platform that will allow brands to create effective campaigns in order to reach audiences who are enticed to listen to their message. Users will be able to connect to their favorite brands through a smartphone application, without the risk of privacy breaches.

For more information and updates, please visit:

Website: https://crowny.io/en

Twitter: https://twitter.com/crownyio

Telegram: https://t.me/crownyio

This is a press release. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the promoted company or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in the press release.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons