Football:

A Florida State Panel will soon address Doak Campbell Stadium and the issue of potentially changing the name of the stadium.

The NCAA has changed the overtime rules again; they continue to muck it up.

Take a second to get to know FSU’s newest CB:

Recruiting:

Did Free Scouting University hit again? James Pearce has been offered by Florida State.

FSU will have to work hard to replace Nyjalik Kelly.

Discuss it all in the updated recruiting thread.

Other Sports:

Dogecoin is in the news lately; how much would you spent on a Ham crypto?

One of my assistants told me that Twitter is going crazy over some coin with a dog on it. So I guess I gotta give the people what they want. pic.twitter.com/ESoMPnFR8h — Leonard Hamilton (@FSUCoachHam) April 22, 2021

Men’s Tennis is on the path to an ACC Championship.

Two days, four games. FSU Softball looks to continue its winning ways vs. Louisville:

SCHEDULE UPDATE



We are now playing a doubleheader on both Friday and Sunday with no games on Saturday at Louisville due to expected weather.



Friday - 3 pm (ACCN) & 5:30 pm (ACCNX)



Sunday - 12 pm (ACCN) & 2:30 pm (ACCNX)https://t.co/ZwJlZgrsYZ — Florida State Softball (@FSU_Softball) April 22, 2021

Baseball travels to Atlanta for a three-game series with Georgia Tech.

It’s a quiet weekend in Tallahassee with both teams traveling vs. conference foes.

Alumni:

Some very unfortunate news as former Seminole linebacker Geno Hayes’ health has taken a turn for the worse.

If Dalvin Cook wants to wear No. 4 again some inventory & merchandising hurdles will need to be cleared first:

Source: #Vikings Dalvin Cook looking into switching from jersey No. 33 to No. 4 he wore in high school & college after rule change allowing single digits. Source said Cook "would love to go back" to 4 but now evaluating "inventory costs" that'd be involved https://t.co/v3MVDnPvX8 — Chris Tomasson (@christomasson) April 22, 2021

Seven Seminoles made PFF’s final 300 prior to next week’s NFL Draft. Only one Seminole was drafted last year; based off this list and many others that will not be the case this year.

Although the Jaguars eventually traded Jalen Ramsey to the Rams they struck gold when they picked the consensus best CB in football. Can they strike gold again with another Florida State cornerback?

Brooks Koepka will probably donate any way but this guy has no shot: