These are the Top Companies Supporting Cryptocurrency Today

A glimpse of the top companies supporting cryptocurrency today.

The cryptocurrency market has been dominated by Bitcoin. It is today’s largest and best-known digital currency. Bitcoin is now accepted as a legal form of payment by a number of significant corporations. Many businesses have benefited from becoming early adopters, whether for marketing goals or to stay current with the times.

In this article, Analytics Insight presents you with the list of the top companies supporting cryptocurrency today.

Coca Cola

Coca Cola distributor Coca Cola Amatil established cooperation with digital assets platform Centrapay to accept Bitcoin as a payment option in the Asia-Pacific region. About 2,000 vending machines in the company accept Bitcoin.

Burger King

In 2020, Burger King Venezuela said it would accept a variety of cryptocurrencies, including Bitcoin. This is done in collaboration with Cryptobuyer, a firm that handles cryptocurrency to fiat cash conversions.

Home Depot

The largest hardware store chain in the United States is Home Depot. Its adoption is significant since it implies you can buy supplies for your complete house with Bitcoin.

Home Depot allows Bitcoin payments through Flexa’s in-store checkout systems. This makes utilizing Bitcoin for payment extremely simple, as Gemini’s cooperation with Flexa has eliminated all of the friction often associated with Bitcoin transactions.

Shopify

Shopify lists four cryptocurrency payment providers as alternative payment methods on its website (Coinbase, BitPay, GoCoin, and CoinPayments). Over 1,800 cryptocurrencies, including Bitcoin, Ethereum, and Litecoin, are currently accepted as payment by merchants. Shopify also allows retailers to select their preferred payment methods through the platform.

Twitch

The top game streaming platform, which is owned by Amazon, accepts Bitcoin and Bitcoin Cash as payment for its services. In March 2019, the firm disabled this option, but it was re-enabled in June.

Pizza Hut

In Venezuela, the big pizza business Pizza Hut can now be purchased and paid for with Bitcoin as of November 2020. This comes after the country was hit with economic sanctions, which pushed cryptocurrency acceptance to unprecedented heights. While this isn’t a global step, it could be a precursor to what’s to come.

Newegg

Newegg is a well-known retailer of cryptocurrency mining hardware in the cryptocurrency community. They supply a wide range of computer hardware at various price points. NewEgg began taking bitcoin for their hardware after realizing its popularity in the cryptocurrency community.

Starbucks

Starbucks has earlier stated that it will accept Bitcoin payments in the coming years, but not before mid-2020. The company began testing with Bitcoin payments via the Bakkt app last year.

PayPal Holdings Inc.

PayPal Holdings Inc. is an American firm that uses its online money transfer system to enable payments between parties all over the world.

PayPal stated in October 2020 that beginning in 2021, users in the United States will be able to purchase, sell, and store a limited number of cryptocurrencies directly through their Cash or Cash Plus accounts. They’ll be able to learn about and track cryptocurrency via their PayPal app as well.

Microsoft

The company enables you to top up your Microsoft account using Bitcoin. It had previously stopped accepting Bitcoin but had quickly reinstated the operation.

Apple

The Apple Pay app accepts Bitcoins and a few other prominent crypto-currencies for payment. BitPay is an app that allows users to purchase Bitcoins and utilize the app’s prepaid Mastercard in Apple Pay. Apple Wallet and Apple Pay both support the BitPay wallet. The BitPay wallet app also supports additional cryptocurrencies including Ether and Bitcoin Cash, as well as dollar-pegged stable coins like USD Coin, Gemini Dollar, Paxos Standard, and Binance USD.