Cryptohawk.AI, a New Software Service Provides Everyday Investors With AI-Based Price Predictions

press release

PRESS RELEASE. Toronto, Canada – June 1, 2021 – Created and rigorously tested by expert data scientists in cohort with expert traders, CryptoHawk.AI allows anyone to harness the power of artificial intelligence and machine learning for improved investment returns in crypto. With the software’s AI based predictions investors are able to remove stress, reduce risk, and save time all while taking advantage of volatility when investing in bitcoin and ethereum.

How the solution works

Cryptohawk’s data scientists have simulated human problem-solving and mental processing in a proprietary computerized model drawing the domain expertise of professional traders. CryptoHawk.AI’s algorithm analyzes millions of data points like volatility, variance, volume, sentiment, search, news, trends, and historical prices 24 hours a day. The algorithm synthesizes, evaluates and organizes data in-order to discover new patterns, anomalies, relationships and manipulates this data into real-time intelligence. Watch this platform overview video to learn more about the solution.

The CryptoHawk AI Algo

The Cryptohawk.ai deep learning machine model was developed by a team of experienced traders and engineers led by Artificial Intelligence solution pioneer Thiery Hubert. This algorithm has been designed to provide investors with powerful yet easy to follow Bitcoin and Ethereum price predictions that are consistently improving as the algorithm learns from previous predictions and adapts to new data and market forces.

This proprietary algorithm continuously processes massive amounts of data at a high speed, and mimics the perception, learning, problem-solving, and decision-making capabilities of professional traders. Unlike humans, machine learning performs better as the amount of data increases and is further trained and adjusted to improve accuracy over time.

Improved Investing Returns with the power of AI

Cryptocurrency investors are consistently dealing with time consuming tasks like watching charts, indicators, reading articles and spotting trends on social media, all tasks that make it difficult for them to maintain and grow their portfolios. CryptoHawk.ai simplifies much of this process as it analyzes millions of data points per hour through a proprietary machine-learning algorithm that continuously spots relevant patterns, makes decisions and generates accurate price trend predictions. CryptoHawk alerts investors through email and text message when a price trend changes allowing users to act with confidence.

To sign up for a free trial visit: http://cryptohawk.ai/

Follow CryptoHawk.AI’s instagram to stay updated: https://www.instagram.com/cryptohawkai/

About CryptoHawk.ai

CryptoHawk is an artificial intelligence platform that allows investors to gain a competitive advantage when trading Bitcoin and Ethereum. Cryptohawk’s proprietary AI algorithm analyzes millions of data points per hour to spot relevant patterns, make decisions and generate accurate price trend predictions. CryptoHawk allows investors to simplify their decision making, reduce risk, exploit market volatility and improve investing performance.

This is a press release. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the promoted company or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in the press release.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons