Daymark accepts Bitcoin (BTC), Ether (ETH), other cryptos for preorders of a car that can mine cryptos while parked

The car can be charged using solar energy making it an emission-free vehicle and, with the Nebula infrastructure in place, the Spiritus is basically an “environmentally-friendly crypto miner node."

Unlike Tesla, which stopped accepting Bitcoin payments recently, Canadian light electric vehicle manufacturer Daymark is wholeheartedly embracing cryptocurrencies. The company is now accepting a multitude of cryptos such as Bitcoin (BTC), Ether (ETH), Dogecoin as payment for an electric car that could mine digital currencies while parked or charging.

“Daymak Inc., a pioneer in personal Light Electric Vehicles (LEVs), today announced that its upcoming Spiritus electric car will include Daymak Nebula, Daymak’s patent-pending, comprehensive cryptocurrency infrastructure,” the company announced on June 1, 2021. The firm added that the electric car is set to arrive by 2023.

Daymak is now accepting a multitude of cryptocurrencies that include Doge, Ethereum, Cardano, and Bitcoin as payments for pre-orders of the Spiritus. The company touts the vehicle as the first car with mining hardware in its user interface as it will come equipped with a Nebula Miner and wallet.

“Every Spiritus vehicle will be a node on the Blockchain, and will include Daymak Nebula Miner and Nebula Wallet,” the Canadian electric carmaker added. “Daymak Nebula technology makes Daymak Spiritus the first car in history with mining hardware and cryptocurrency technology programmed into the user interface.”

The car can be charged using solar energy making it an emission-free vehicle. With the Nebula infrastructure in place, the Spiritus is basically an “environmentally-friendly crypto miner node,” contributing to the goal of a greener crypto mining.

Another plus factor is that the car actually earns money while not being used. “Whereas most vehicles are depreciating while they sit in your garage, the Nebula Miner will make you money while your Spiritus is parked,” Daymark President Aldo Baiocchi said. “The potential applications are limitless.”

The company expects greater crypto adoption in the future and designed the car’s functionalities to meet the transaction needs of its owner. “We envision a future where your highway tolls, your parking, and your drive-thru order will be paid directly on the fly with crypto,” Baiocchi explained. “Your online bills and your banking can be handled through the same software platform paid in crypto.”

“The current crypto movement is a clear indication that by the 2023 Spiritus release date, we will be in the midst of the blockchain revolution,” the Daymark president added. “Everyone will be paying with crypto by then, and we are building these cars with that in mind.”

TokenPost | [email protected]