Nik Bhatia says asset managers seeking growth on behalf of their clients need to consider bitcoin.

Making excuses that it's a bubble means they haven't done their research, he says.

He adds Americans may end up late to the game compared to other parts of the world.

See more stories on Insider's business page.

Asset managers who are tasked with growing wealth would be failing to act in their clients' best interest, or fulfill their fiduciary duties, if they do not research and consider bitcoin as an investment. That's according to Nik Bhatia, an adjunct professor of finance and business economics at the University of Southern California Marshall School of Business.

Once skeptical of cryptocurrencies, traditional Wall Street firms like Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan and BlackRock recently started exposing their clients' portfolios to bitcoin and its derivatives. Their interest fueled a rally that lifted bitcoin's price more than 700% to its peak above $64,000 in April from a year earlier. The volatile cryptocurrency has since crashed by nearly 50%.

"Growth managers that are responsible for securing growth returns for their clients that haven't done research into bitcoin at this point are bordering on some sort of fiduciary violation," said Bhatia, who authored the book "Layered Money: From Gold and Dollars to Bitcoin and Central Bank Digital Currencies."

Asset managers should have at least read the pros and cons and done their own analysis, says Bhatia. Then, if they decide it's not the right move on behalf of their clients, that's okay. But that's not what he's been seeing. Instead, it's just old narratives being recycled based on headlines, he said.

Bhatia says bitcoin has arrived and it's here to stay. The cryptocurrency's purpose isn't only as a store of value. The asset's decentralized neutrality and its ability to be openly verified will likely make it the anchor for the global monetary system in the future, replacing the US dollar, he says.

While this view is commonly held among bitcoin bulls, other experts, including Fed officials, believe the dollar will maintain its preeminence.

Still, Bhatia believes bitcoin's protocol for monetary settlement will become the system on which other systems are built.

"I worked in the bond industry for several years, and I worked in both operations and trading capacities. I was involved in emailing and faxing dollars through the wire process, and Fed wire, and repo settlement, and US Treasury securities settlements through DTC," Bhatia told Insider.

He continued, "I saw it every day of my life for several years up, close, and personal. I know the archaic nature of final settlement and the dollar world, it's just old technology. And bitcoin is the technology that will underpin what we think of as final settlement in the future. And, there will be layers on top of bitcoin just like Lightning Network."

Right now the US dollar is the center of international finance and trade. It's also the global reserve currency and the one several foreign corporations and countries denominate their debt in. But it's losing its status, Bhatia says; with inflation kicking in, assets like land become considered almost superior reserve assets to the dollar.

Bhatia believes bitcoin will be the unit that everybody, including global governments and their currencies, will strike their balance sheets against. Knowing all of this means there's no longer an excuse to ignore the asset.

"Can you imagine being a growth manager 20 years ago with no exposure to the internet and you called it a bubble? And then you didn't own Amazon as it 20'xed over the next several years?" Bhatia said on a podcast episode of "What Bitcoin Did".

Price volatility is the only investor concern about bitcoin that he acknowledges, and only if there's a mandate to have a standard deviation of returns within a certain range.

For Bhatia, calling bitcoin a bubble only suggests that the firm in question hasn't done its research. However, he makes it clear that he is not referring to fixed-income managers whose mandates or responsibilities to their investors are to make sure that capital is returned and income is sought. The group he is referring to are investment managers who have promised their clients growth in industries that have large opportunities, including venture capitalists.

"If you're ignoring bitcoin now as a growth manager, you are ignoring that an alternative monetary reality has come into existence on this planet," Bhatia said on the podcast.

How bitcoin is seen on a global scale

Bhatia also believes Americans may be some of the last people who will get their hands on bitcoin relative to other places in the world. His reasoning is that they have not faced as much adversity and insecurity around their dollar as other countries have. And to him, inflationary concerns aren't enough of a motivator.

He says what's driving people in the West to bitcoin is the fear of missing out and the chance of getting greater returns, which is not as strong a motivator as other parts of the world.

Countries more familiar with economic turmoil or currency debasement are going to be quicker to invest in bitcoin and even convert their savings to it. In places like Latin America and Africa, people are already realizing that prices are rising relative to their currencies and they are looking for something more real that they can get their hands on monetarily, Bhatia said on the podcast.