Professional investors argued it was too early to say whether Bitcoin is a genuine inflation hedge because it has only been around since 2009 - a period of relatively low inflationary pressures.

Ben Conway, of Hawksmoor Investment Management, said there were similarities between gold and Bitcoin but backed gold as a better inflation hedge despite its poor performance this year.

“Bitcoin is having a big impact, and some people have definitely moved their gold money into Bitcoin this year, but it is too young an investment to assess whether it will be a genuine inflation hedge. Gold has a longer history so the burden of proof remains with Bitcoin,” he said.

Bitcoin was simply speculation, Mr Conway argued, because its wild price swings had nothing to do with the broader investment climate. “It is too volatile to be a serious investment. But you have to be humble. No one knows what the future holds and trust may continue to grow in Bitcoin. You can’t rule that out.”

Laith Khalaf, of stock broker AJ Bell, said the trading history of Bitcoin was too short and volatile to provide any evidence of a link with inflation. Instead the price was driven by regulatory developments, business adoption - and Elon Musk’s Twitter feed.

"So Bitcoin doesn’t provide the inflationary hedge investors might be seeking. Bitcoin can be used as a bit of portfolio diversification if you already have the main bases covered. But the most you should invest is a tiny amount of your overall wealth, and buckle up for a bumpy ride," he said.

Bank of America took a stronger stance, saying that the only reason to own Bitcoin was if an investor thought its price would rise due to greater demand.

“The main argument for holding Bitcoin is not diversification, stable returns, or inflation protection, but rather sheer price appreciation, a factor that depends on Bitcoin demand outpacing supply,” it said.

The bank said the biggest driver of the Bitcoin price was interest in the cryptocurrency, which can be measured by Google search interest. “The last two large Bitcoin rallies have been accompanied by a large increase in on-line interest in crypto, as Google trends show."

Yet there is a growing cohort of investors, entrepreneurs and researchers who believe Bitcoin could become a genuine hedge against inflation and even take the place of gold.

Quant Insight, a research firm, found that stronger inflation expectations, as measured by rising bond yields, correlated with a higher Bitcoin price, a trend which had strengthened this year. “Cryptocurrencies are many things to many people but, on current trends, Bitcoin offers a more efficient inflation hedge than gold.”