NEW YORK, June 01, 2021 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- WisdomTree, an exchange traded fund ("ETF") and exchange traded product ("ETP") sponsor, has announced its physically-backed bitcoin and ether ETPs have listed on Euronext exchanges in Paris and Amsterdam. WisdomTree Bitcoin (BTCW) and WisdomTree Ethereum (ETHW) each have a total expense ratio of 0.95% and are already listed on Germany’s Börse Xetra and SIX, the Swiss Stock Exchange.



The listings of BTCW and ETHW on the Euronext exchanges follow a series of new developments across WisdomTree’s digital assets platform. In April, ETHW launched on Börse Xetra and SIX. Also in April, BTCW listed on Börse Xetra. WisdomTree offers Europe’s lowest priced physically-backed bitcoin and ether ETPs.

Jason Guthrie, Head of Digital Assets, Europe, WisdomTree, said: “Listing on Euronext opens up more access points for investors to conveniently allocate to, and trade, both BTCW and ETHW. Since we launched our digital assets platform in 2019, we have seen a lot of development in the space. This milestone represents the growing acceptance of cryptocurrencies, the evolving European regulatory landscape and the latest signal that digital assets are here to stay. A willingness from regulators and exchanges to list cryptocurrency ETPs is lending further credibility to this growing and popular asset class. This development will buoy institutional investors, trading via Euronext, that have been waiting for further signs of acceptance before making their first allocations to digital assets.”

BTCW and ETHW provide investors with a simple, secure and cost-efficient way to gain exposure to the most liquid and popular cryptocurrencies, bitcoin and ether. The ETPs allow investors to access bitcoin and ether without the need to hold the cryptocurrencies directly, store private access keys or interact with the blockchain or digital currency infrastructure in any way. Investors also receive access to institutional-grade storage solutions without needing to set it up with a custodian themselves.

To ensure the highest level of security, WisdomTree leverages regulated, institutional-grade digital currency custodians, Coinbase and Swissquote, who maintain highly secure cold storage facilities.

Alexis Marinof, Head of Europe, WisdomTree, added: “Our commitment to support investors on their journey into digital assets is reinforced with the listings of BTCW and ETHW on Euronext. We have built a best-in-class digital assets platform, made up of the most investor-friendly bitcoin and ether ETPs. Our heritage provides a level of comfort and expertise investors are unable to get from other physically-backed cryptocurrency ETP providers. This translates into a market leading product from price point through to unrivalled product structure.”

WisdomTree’s digital assets product range1 has over $235m2 in assets under management.

Jonathan Steinberg, CEO, WisdomTree, concluded: “We know digital assets and blockchain are top of mind for our clients and we want to help them understand and navigate the space. Accessibility has been a challenge for many investors but as another important exchange facilitates access, opportunities are continuing to open up for investors and barriers to adoption are decreasing.”

WisdomTree’s digital assets ETPs (BTCW and ETHW) are passported in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Ireland, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Spain and Sweden.

Product information

Listing Name TER Exchange Trading

Ccy Exchange

Code ISIN WisdomTree Bitcoin 0.95% Euronext

Amsterdam USD BTCW GB00BJYDH287 WisdomTree Bitcoin 0.95% Euronext

Paris EUR WBTC GB00BJYDH287 WisdomTree Ethereum 0.95% Euronext

Amsterdam USD ETHW GB00BJYDH394 WisdomTree Ethereum 0.95% Euronext

Paris EUR WETH GB00BJYDH394

Find out more: https://www.wisdomtree.eu/en-gb/strategies/crypto-currency

For further information, please contact:

Jessica Zaloom, Head of Corporate Communications and Public Relations, +1 917 267 3735 / JZaloom@wisdomtree.com

Arran Fano, PR and Communications, +44 20 7448 4336 / AFano@WisdomTree.com

About WisdomTree

WisdomTree Investments, Inc., through its subsidiaries in the U.S. and Europe (collectively, “WisdomTree”), is an exchange-traded fund (“ETF”) and exchange-traded product (“ETP”) sponsor and asset manager headquartered in New York. WisdomTree offers products covering equity, commodity, fixed income, leveraged and inverse, currency, cryptocurrency and alternative strategies. WisdomTree currently has approximately $74.9 billion in assets under management globally.

WisdomTree® is the marketing name for WisdomTree Investments, Inc. and its subsidiaries worldwide.

IMPORTANT INFORMATION

Communications issued in the European Economic Area (“EEA”): This document has been issued and approved by WisdomTree Ireland Limited, which is authorised and regulated by the Central Bank of Ireland.

Communications issued in jurisdictions outside of the EEA: This document has been issued and approved by WisdomTree UK Limited, which is authorised and regulated by the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority.

WisdomTree Ireland Limited and WisdomTree UK Limited are each referred to as “WisdomTree” (as applicable). Our Conflicts of Interest Policy and Inventory are available on request.

For professional clients only. Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future performance. Any historical performance included in this document may be based on back testing. Back testing is the process of evaluating an investment strategy by applying it to historical data to simulate what the performance of such strategy would have been. Back tested performance is purely hypothetical and is provided in this document solely for informational purposes. Back tested data does not represent actual performance and should not be interpreted as an indication of actual or future performance. The value of any investment may be affected by exchange rate movements. Any decision to invest should be based on the information contained in the appropriate prospectus and after seeking independent investment, tax and legal advice. These products may not be available in your market or suitable for you. The content of this document does not constitute investment advice nor an offer for sale nor a solicitation of an offer to buy any product or make any investment.

An investment in exchange-traded products (“ETPs”) is dependent on the performance of the underlying index, less costs, but it is not expected to match that performance precisely. ETPs involve numerous risks including among others, general market risks relating to the relevant underlying index, credit risks on the provider of index swaps utilised in the ETP, exchange rate risks, interest rate risks, inflationary risks, liquidity risks and legal and regulatory risks.

The information contained in this document is not, and under no circumstances is to be construed as, an advertisement or any other step in furtherance of a public offering of shares in the United States or any province or territory thereof, where none of the issuers or their products are authorised or registered for distribution and where no prospectus of any of the issuers has been filed with any securities commission or regulatory authority. No document or information in this document should be taken, transmitted or distributed (directly or indirectly) into the United States. None of the issuers, nor any securities issued by them, have been or will be registered under the United States Securities Act of 1933 or the Investment Company Act of 1940 or qualified under any applicable state securities statutes.

This document may contain independent market commentary prepared by WisdomTree based on publicly available information. Although WisdomTree endeavours to ensure the accuracy of the content in this document, WisdomTree does not warrant or guarantee its accuracy or correctness. Any third-party data providers used to source the information in this document make no warranties or representation of any kind relating to such data. Where WisdomTree has expressed its own opinions related to product or market activity, these views may change. Neither WisdomTree, nor any affiliate, nor any of their respective officers, directors, partners, or employees accepts any liability whatsoever for any direct or consequential loss arising from any use of this document or its contents.

This document may contain forward looking statements including statements regarding our belief or current expectations with regards to the performance of certain assets classes and/or sectors. Forward looking statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. There can be no assurance that such statements will be accurate and actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements. WisdomTree strongly recommends that you do not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.

The product discussed in this document is issued by WisdomTree Issuer X Limited (the “Issuer”). Investors should read the prospectus of the Issuer before investing and should refer to the section of the prospectus entitled “Risk Factors” for further details of risks associated with an investment in the securities offered by the Issuer.

Securities issued by the Issuer are direct, limited recourse obligations of the Issuer alone and are not obligations of or guaranteed by any of Swissquote Bank Ltd (“Swissquote”), Coinbase Custody Trust Company LLC (“Coinbase”), any of their affiliates or anyone else or any of their affiliates. Each of Swissquote and Coinbase disclaims all and any liability whether arising in tort, contract or otherwise which it might have in respect of this document or its contents otherwise arising in connection herewith.

The product discussed in this document is an unregulated ETP, approved to trade on the SIX Swiss Exchange in Switzerland and the Deutsche Börse Xetra in Germany. Cryptocurrencies are a high-risk investment and may not be suitable for all types of investor. Prospective investors should be aware that the price of the underlying asset(s) by which the securities are secured can demonstrate higher volatility than other asset classes and consequently the value of the securities may be extremely volatile. You must ensure that the nature, complexity and risks associated with cryptocurrencies are suitable for your objectives in light of your circumstances and financial position.

1 Consisting of WisdomTree Bitcoin and WisdomTree Ethereum

2 As at 27 May 2021