The dangerous thing about writing anything critical about Bitcoin or other cryptocurrencies is that it’s like poking a wasps’ nest. It provokes passionate crypto fanatics to respond in rabid legion to defend their favourites.

In the main it seems, they’re just keen to protect their investments. And that’s totally understandable. If you’ve banked your future on something, you’re going to do what you can to save it from people who may seem to want to destroy it.

Personally I don’t believe anyone wants to destroy Bitcoin. But there are plenty of warnings echoing around about it at the moment. Last week the Advertising Standards Authority banned a Bitcoin ad it said was “irrresponsible”.

Get financial advice and industry news, to you help manage your money Email address is invalid Thank you for subscribing! Sorry, there was a problem with your subscription.

It was a campaign by cryptocurrency exchange Luno which plastered a poster all over London’s public transport system reading: “If you’re seeing Bitcoin on the underground, it’s time to buy”.

The message the marketing tried to push on people was that Bitcoin was now mainstream. But it is not. And the ad rightly prompted a number of complaints. The real message that ordinary people need to understand is that “If you’re buying Bitcoin, you’re taking a massive risk.”

I’m not going to tell you that Bitcoin itself is dodgy. I don’t really understand the blockchain technology that underpins it to make that call. I’m not even going to tell you that buying Bitcoin could be a huge financial mistake. Yes, the cryptocurrency recently lost half its value and, yes, its price fluctuates more than anything I’ve ever experienced in three decades of watching financial markets.

But if you’re prepared for a white-knuckle rollercoaster ride, then Bitcoin could be just the thing for you. As long as you’re prepared to risk losing your money, that is. I’m not saying that will happen. Indeed I have friends who have backed Bitcoin for years and are currently sitting on huge gains (although somewhat less than a few weeks ago).

But anyone shoving their hard-earned savings into Bitcoin right now has to understand that once they hand their money over, there is absolutely no protection offered to them. Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies are not regulated by British financial authorities. Cryptocurrency exchanges or platforms like Luno are not regulated either.

That means if you hand your money over and things go wrong, you have no recourse to the City Watchdog – the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) – and you won’t be able to turn to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) to get your cash back. The FCA itself has cautioned consumers to be wary of any firms offering investments in cryptoassets that promise high returns.

Last week the Advertising Standards Authority banned a Bitcoin ad it said was “irrresponsible” (Photo: Getty)

“If consumers invest in these types of product, they should be prepared to lose all their money,” the Watchdog warned in January.

Susannah Streeter, senior investment and markets analyst, Hargreaves Lansdown says: “On top of being extremely volatile, most cryptocurrencies are unregulated, which not only adds another layer of uncertainty but also means that investors have little or no protection against fraud.”

She points out that traders need to hold their cryptocurrencies on computers, phones or tablets within a digital wallet. “That opens the door for cybercrime as hackers look for new ways to steal cryptocurrencies, particularly when they shoot up in value.”

The latest to issue a crypto warning was high street bank NatWest. At the end of last week it directed its mobile app users to a warning screen advising them to beware of cryptocurrency scams. The bank acted after it received a “record number” of reports about crypto scams between January and March 2021.

The ASA was scathing in its note last week about the offending Luno ad. It said the simplicity of the “it’s time to buy” statement “gave the impression that Bitcoin investment was straightforward and accessible”.

It’s not. The ASA concluded that “Bitcoin investment is complex, volatile and could expose investors to losses.” It wasn’t not the first time the organisation has acted against Bitcoin sellers and it’s unlikely to be the last.

In March, it banned a full-page advert for crypto exchange Coinfloor that claimed “there is no point in keeping your money in the bank” and used a case study to suggest that Bitcoin was “digital gold”. The ASA said the ad “irresponsibly suggested that purchasing Bitcoin represented a secure investment of one’s savings or pension”.

Against all that a number of cryptocurrencies themselves have shown massive rises in value in the last few years. For that reason it’s easy to be persuaded that maybe they are worth a punt. Especially as some believe they will eventually prove to be the future of money.

If they do eventually become part of the mainstream, then maybe those that backed them at the beginning and have held on during all the wild ups and downs ever since will be laughing. But only if they don’t need the cash in the meantime.