Then, last August, John M. Griffin and Amin Shams, two academics who study cryptocurrencies, published the final version of a paper that had been attracting great attention in the cryptocurrency world since it was published in an earlier form in June 2018. Their 119-page study, “Is Bitcoin Really Un-Tethered?” analyzed flows of Tether and Bitcoin, finding that half the movement in Bitcoin prices during part of the 2017 bubble were driven by “one entity.” As the academics stated, “we find that purchases with Tether are timed following market downturns and result in sizable increases in Bitcoin prices.”

Griffin and Sham’s analysis also suggested that Tether wasn’t sufficiently backed and that the company might be printing coins and moving assets around to cover holes in its balance sheet. “Tether claimed our paper was incorrect,” said Griffin in a phone call. “But we appreciate the fact that due to the work of the New York AG, the lawyer on record admitted their currency was unbacked. Tether has confirmed the main finding of our paper.” (Paolo Ardoino did not respond when contacted for comment via Twitter, but Tether general counsel Stuart Hoegner issued a statement to TNR calling the study “roundly discredited.” He claimed that “there is no causal relationship between the issuance of Tethers and market movements up or down” and that “Tether is always 100% backed by Tether reserves, which include traditional currency and cash equivalents.”)*

The trouble with Tether is not just one fly-by-night company with opaque financial dealings. Bitfinex and Tether’s web of relationships extends throughout the cryptocurrency world, encompassing numerous exchanges, wealthy traders, and unaccountable executives living in the margins between legal jurisdictions. Even Bitfinex has portrayed itself as a victim of yet another concern, a Panamanian “shadow bank” called Crypto Capital that handled money for major crypto exchanges—until some of its backers, including former NFL owner Reginald Fowler , were arrested on embezzlement charges. Bitfinex maintains that Crypto Capital made off with $850 million of its money but that the two companies never even had a written contract. (The New York Attorney General has alleged that Bitfinex used Tether funds to cover up the shortfall.)

If Tether’s critics are right and this is a rehash of the 2017 bubble—but bigger—how long can the company keep pumping the Bitcoin market while multiple investigations bear down on it? And if the price of Bitcoin can be manipulated—by a company that simply prints digital money (not unlike the Federal Reserve’s practice of quantitative easing, a policy despised by Bitcoiners)—doesn’t that undercut one of the core selling points of Bitcoin?