Using Bitcoin to pay for luxury travel and BitLux private charter flights are becoming increasingly popular. This digital currency can be used to buy virtually anything. Hundreds of companies already accept this form of payment and, as it becomes more mainstream, others will likely follow suit.

Bitcoin is particularly convenient for jetsetters and business people because it is not linked to a particular country, so there is no need to convert fiat currency when crossing borders. There is also no international transaction fees and red tape to worry about when using a credit card, drawing money at an ATM, or doing international money transfers.

Benefits of Bitcoin

According to moneycrashers.com it generally has lower transaction fees than other digital payment methods like credit cards and PayPal. Bitcoin transactions rarely cost more than 1% of its value.

Another benefit of Bitcoin is that it has greater liquidity than other cryptocurrencies. This makes it easier to convert it to fiat currencies while still keeping most of its value. It is, however, not yet possible to buy and sell Bitcoin whenever you want and in any amount.

If privacy and anonymity is important to you, then Bitcoin is the perfect currency for you. Your identity will be protected at all times because Bitcoin has built-in privacy protection that separates your account from your public persona. The program is designed to publicly record transactions and other relevant data without revealing the identity of the user. Instead, users are identified by public keys, or numerical codes, that identify them to other users. They can also use pseudonyms if they do not want to use their real names.

How do I pay with Bitcoin?

According to Commpro it is very easy to use Bitcoin. First you need to get a crypto wallet where you can store your digital currency. You can find a free one online. Your Bitcoin wallet is like a bank account that you can use to receive, store, and pay money. Once that is set up you must buy some Bitcoins. You can use your credit card or bank account to buy some. Simply give the exchange service your Bitcoin wallet address and you are done.

Buying something using Bitcoin is just as easy. All you have to do is copy the online merchant’s Bitcoin address and then paste it in the designated field on your wallet. Then type the exact amount into the payment box and click “send”. The transaction should be finished within seconds.

There are many companies where you can pay for your luxury travel using Bitcoin. A quick search on the internet revealed at least 12 travel sites that welcome Bitcoin payments. They include companies that organise unforgettable holidays for you, ones that can get you cheap flights, accommodation, and rental cars, and ones where you can use Bitcoin for everything from flights, airport lounges, and hotels, to ski resorts, trains, and buses.

Bitcoin makes a comeback

One of the means of travel that really stood out was a trip on the Virgin Galactic, Sir Richard Branson’s commercial space flight. If space travel is not really your thing, you can spoil yourself with a luxury trip on a private jet. If you use BitLux you can choose the model and size of the jet you want. And if you are feeling adventurous, you can even hire a helicopter.

According to bloomberg.com Bitcoin is making a comeback among the wealthy. The cryptocurrency surged to new heights in the last few months and affluent investors bought huge amounts of Bitcoin. Christian Armbruester, the founder of Blu Family Office, an investment firm, said he wishes he had bought more Bitcoin. Ricardo Salinas Pliego, a Mexican media billionaire, recently invested 10% of his liquid assets in Bitcoin. Investors are now looking at this currency with new eyes. It is also winning mainstream acceptance among big companies like PayPal Holdings Inc. and Visa Inc., both of which now accept Bitcoin.

Since the wealthy have started to regain their trust in Bitcon, it only makes sense that providers of luxury travel would add this digital currency to their list of payment options.