There are many ways investors can protect themselves against rising inflation, but boardroom and bedroom traders are locked in debate about the merits of two strategies, one old and one new: investing in gold or cryptocurrency Bitcoin.

Both have more or less fixed supply, gold due to the limited amount in the ground and Bitcoin due to its design, which means that there will only be 21 million coins ever in circulation, just 13pc more than there are today.

The theory goes that central bank money printing and government spending splurges will devalue regular currencies while increasing the value of ones, like gold and Bitcoin, that are cannot be tampered with.

Investors are betting that inflation will rise this year, reflected in the rise in the yield on British 10-year government bonds from 0.25pc to 0.9pc in 2021 so far. But the fortunes of gold and Bitcoin have diverged over the same period: the precious metal has lost 6pc since the turn of the year, while the world's leading cryptocurrency has soared 93pc.

‘Bitcoin hasn’t proven itself yet’

The consensus among professional investors is that it is too early to say whether Bitcoin is a genuine inflation hedge because it has only been around since 2009, a period of relatively low inflationary pressures.

Ben Conway, of Hawksmoor Investment Management, said there were similarities between gold and Bitcoin but backed gold as a better inflation hedge, despite its poor performance this year.

“Bitcoin is having a big impact, and some people have definitely moved their gold money into Bitcoin this year, but it is too young an investment to assess whether it will be a genuine inflation hedge. Gold has a longer history so the burden of proof remains with Bitcoin,” he said.

He argued that gold was falling this year because bond yields, which move in the opposite direction to prices, were rising more quickly than inflation, which meant the real value of cash was rising.

“Gold is useful when the purchasing power of money is falling. This is when you get increasingly less from safe assets like government bonds compared with the rate of inflation.

“While the yield on bonds is still below the inflation rate, it has been moving in a positive direction this year, with yields shooting up. Real yields have become less negative which is why gold has fallen,” he said.

In addition, Mr Conway noted that gold had enjoyed a bumper year in 2020, rising almost 25pc, so a correction was overdue.

However, he still backed the yellow metal as a useful tool against inflation and an essential portfolio building block.