Star Wars Collectibles Go Digital as Collections Embrace NFTs

More than 800 limited edition collectibles, some from shooting scenes, are set to go to auction on the Starcoll NFT marketplace, as a large collector leverages blockchain technology for one of the most storied movie franchises in history.

Early Registration Timed for May The 4th (Be With You)

In a growing sign of the times, non-fungible tokens (NFT) have become too attractive for even Star Wars collectors to ignore. As one of the more popular memorabilia and toy markets even before the rise of blockchain, the move by Starcoll to capitalize on the promise of blockchain technology for assuring both digital and physical ownership for Star Wars collectibles represents a natural fit.

Starcoll, an NFT marketplace and collection, is built on the QAN blockchain to ensure the highest level of security possible. The adoption of this hybrid, quantum-resistant blockchain is intended to address problematic issues that have plagued NFTs, like poor security and the ability of hackers to change source files to memes.

Designed to appeal to collectors and collections alike, Starcoll’s first event will feature 800+ items from a single private collection, including limited edition pieces and even some items from shooting scenes as well. A physical item collateralizes every NFT minted by Starcoll from the collection.

The accompanying traveling exhibition of the collection will display owner and NFT metadata information unless the owner opts for anonymity.

Starcoll NFT buyers will be granted complimentary access to this global exhibition. Early registration for Starcoll begins on May 4th in an homage to Star Wars fans and collectors celebrating “May The Fourth Be With You.”

What would Darth Vader think of NFTs? Let us know in the comments section below.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons, Starcoll

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not a direct offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or a recommendation or endorsement of any products, services, or companies. Bitcoin.com does not provide investment, tax, legal, or accounting advice. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.