Billionaire hedge fund veteran and noted Bitcoin skeptic Ray Dalio is reportedly changing his stance on BTC as he now believes the leading cryptocurrency should be part of a diversified portfolio.

Participating in the Texas A&M Bitcoin conference, Dalio says that in a world threatened by currency debasement, investors should strive to allocate their capital in a wide range of assets.

“You need a diversified portfolio. If you hold one asset you are overexposed, even if it’s only Bitcoin you hold.”

ADVERTISEMENT

According to commodities media outlet Kitco, Dalio suggests adding Bitcoin when building a well-diversified investment portfolio. Dalio takes his recommendation a step further, contending that investors should allocate 20% of their portfolio to the leading cryptocurrency.

Dalio’s abrupt change in stance comes just weeks after warning that governments may target BTC as it continues to succeed as a store of value

“Every country treasures its monopoly on controlling the supply and demand. They don’t want other monies to be operating or competing, because things can get out of control. So I think that it would be very likely that you will have it, under a certain set of circumstances, outlawed the way gold was outlawed.”

Dalio also remarked that it is possible for the US government to impose “shocking” taxes on Bitcoin and gold in an effort to move capital away from store-of-value assets.

“If history and logic are to be a guide, policymakers who are short of money will raise taxes and won’t like these capital movements out of debt assets and into other storehold of wealth assets and other tax domains so they could very well impose prohibitions against capital movements to other assets (e.g., gold, Bitcoin, etc.) and other locations. These tax changes could be more shocking than expected.”

Don't Miss a Beat – Subscribe to get crypto email alerts delivered directly to your inbox

Follow us on Twitter Facebook and Telegram

ADVERTISEMENT

Check Latest News Headlines

ADVERTISEMENT

Disclaimer: Opinions expressed at The Daily Hodl are not investment advice. Investors should do their due diligence before making any high-risk investments in Bitcoin, cryptocurrency or digital assets. Please be advised that your transfers and trades are at your own risk, and any loses you may incur are your responsibility. The Daily Hodl does not recommend the buying or selling of any cryptocurrencies or digital assets, nor is The Daily Hodl an investment advisor. Please note that The Daily Hodl participates in affiliate marketing.

Featured Image: Shutterstock/Marco Govel