Bill Miller's Multibillion-Dollar Hedge Fund to Add Bitcoin Exposure via GBTC

Billionaire hedge fund manager Bill Miller’s flagship fund will soon be able to add bitcoin exposure by investing in Grayscale’s bitcoin trust (GBTC), according to its filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The fund currently has about $2.25 billion in assets under management.

Bill Miller’s $2.25M Hedge Fund to Invest in GBTC

The Miller Opportunity Trust, a hedge fund in the Miller Value Funds family, has filed an amendment to its registration statement with the U.S. SEC to be able to gain exposure to bitcoin. Billionaire investor Bill Miller founded Miller Value Partners LLC in 1999 and serves as the investment manager for the Miller Value Funds family.

The company’s flagship fund, the Miller Opportunity Trust, had $2.25 billion in assets under management as of Dec. 31, 2020. Miller and Samantha McLemore manage the fund. According to the Feb. 5 filing with the SEC:

The fund may seek investment exposure to bitcoin indirectly by investing in the Grayscale Bitcoin Trust, an entity that holds bitcoin.

The Miller Opportunity Trust’s investment objective is to seek “long term growth of capital.” The filing will become effective 60 days after the filing date.

Grayscale Bitcoin Trust (GBTC) is a privately offered investment vehicle, the shares of which are also available over-the-counter, the filing notes. Grayscale recently reached the milestone of over $30 billion in net crypto assets under management, about $24 billions of which were in bitcoin. Besides the bitcoin trust, the company offers eight other crypto investment products.

The Miller Opportunity Trust’s SEC filing further explains:

The fund will not make any additional investments in the Grayscale Bitcoin Trust if, as a result of the investment, its aggregate investment in bitcoin exposure would be more than 15% of its assets at the time of investment.

Miller has long been a bitcoin proponent. He said in November last year that every major bank will have exposure to bitcoin, noting that BTC’s volatility decreases are its price increases.

What do you think about Bill Miller’s hedge fund investing in GBTC? Let us know in the comments section below.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not a direct offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or a recommendation or endorsement of any products, services, or companies. Bitcoin.com does not provide investment, tax, legal, or accounting advice. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.