Wang Zheng/VCG via Getty Images

A bronze statue depicting Satoshi Nakamoto will be going up in Budapest, Hungary Today said.

It will be a hooded figure with a reflective surface for a face, so viewers can see themselves in it.

The design is a reference to bitcoin's unknown creator and the idea that "we are all Satoshi."

Sign up here for our daily newsletter, 10 Things Before the Opening Bell.

The first ever statue depicting bitcoin's mystery creator Satoshi Nakamoto is set to be unveiled in Budapest, local outlet Hungary Today reported this week.

Plans show the sculpture will be a hooded figure whose face will have a reflective surface, so viewers can find their own reflection when standing before it. The idea is to highlight the unknown identity of the creator and bitcoin's characteristic purpose that "we are all Satoshi."

It appears that the statue, designed by sculptors Réka Gergely and Tamás Gilly, will be made up of only the upper part of a human figure in bronze metal.

Réka Gergely/Hungary Today

The project is the brainchild of crypto enthusiast András Györfi, who told Hungary Today the identity of bitcoin's creator does not matter. Nakamoto's invention did open a new chapter in the history of the internet, but the blockchain technology powering bitcoin is what makes the world even better, according to him.

"It is an efficient, fair, and transparent database that eliminates distrust between people and can make the world a better place in many areas, from food supply, to aid delivery," he said.

The new figure will stand in Graphisoft Park, a science and technology park on the banks of the Danube river. The grounds already boast another prolific tech figure, with a sculpture of Apple co-founder Steve Jobs, seemingly addressing a crowd in his signature long-sleeved turtleneck, jeans, and round glasses.

Four Hungarian organizations are funding the plan - Mr. Coin, Crypto Academy, Blockchain Hungary Association, and Blockchain Budapest. The report did not lay out a timeline for the project.

Read More: Getting paid in crypto instead of cash may sound crazy, but here's why you may want to - and the potential complications