Bitstamp, a popular bitcoin exchange company founded in 2011, and ZEBEDEE, a crypto payment gaming technology company for virtual worlds, today announced a partnership to create a bridge between the growing bitcoin gaming ecosystem and the wider crypto economy.

By integrating the ZEBEDEE bitcoin gaming wallet with Bitstamp, gamers will be able to move bitcoin between games and the real world.

ZEBEDEE’s bitcoin gaming wallet is an entry point into the world of bitcoin gaming. Over ten thousand gamers, including notable names from the game streaming world like Furiousss, Tweeday, and D0cC, are already playing games like Counter-Strike: Global Offensive for bitcoin using ZEBEDEE’s tech and withdrawing what they earn to the ZEBEDEE wallet.

However, so far, it was difficult to then exchange the bitcoin earned in games for other currencies or use it to make payments. Bitstamp now comes in to solve that problem and take the economic potential of bitcoin gaming to the next level.

“Gaming and eSports are already hugely popular worldwide and growing fast…bringing these worlds together makes a lot of sense and, as the world’s longest-running crypto exchange, we’re happy to use our extensive know-how and reliable infrastructure to support the massive economic potential of bitcoin gaming.”

– Julian Sawyer, CEO of Bitstamp

Bitstamp + ZEBEDEE

ZEBEDEE and Bitstamp have been closely linked before, with key members of the Bitstamp team, including CTO David Osojnik, taking part in the first-ever CS:GO game played for bitcoin – a revolutionary feat unveiled by ZEBEDEE earlier this year with the help of their Infuse app. CS:GO is the world’s most popular multiplayer shooter game, which can now be played with real-time bitcoin transfers as an extra layer of incentive, or what ZEBEDEE calls “skin in the game”.

“Bitcoin really does change the game, in more ways than one. Suddenly your score inside the game has real-world economic value. This massively increases the level of engagement you have with the game; but it also points to previously impossible economic models. I thoroughly believe that gaming is how we bring the next billion users into crypto and that, in the future, young people will earn their first paycheck simply by playing games.”

– Simon Cowell, CEO of ZEBEDEE

The partnership announcement came on the eve of the bitcoin 2021 conference in Miami, where ZEBEDEE unveiled its upcoming gaming event, MintGox Esports Arena, where gamers on-location or online will be able to play a variety of games for bitcoin. Bitstamp was already heavily present at the Esports Arena, having donated 0.5 BTC for free CS:GO for bitcoin matches throughout the conference.

Now, with the announcement of their partnership, Bitstamp has committed another half a bitcoin in support of the bitcoin gaming ecosystem, all of which will be given out directly to gamers through bitcoin-Infused CS:GO matches. Therefore, gamers, crypto enthusiasts, and those simply looking to earn some bitcoin while having fun playing games can look forward to earning their share of the 1 bitcoin up for grabs inside CS:GO games played through ZEBEDEE Infuse with absolutely no strings attached.