The cryptocurrency wave is washing ashore at Tilman Fertitta’s empire this week as cryptocurrency payment options start arriving at Mastro’s Steakhouse and Houston Rockets’ box offices and retail operations.

Patrick Fertitta, Tilman Fertitta’s son and director of operations at Fertitta Entertainment, is spearheading the effort. He said in an interview that accepting bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies will give the company’s brands an edge with wealthy customers venturing into the space.

“I think it is a good message to the market about the type of company we are,” he said.

On HoustonChronicle.com: Houston billionaire Tilman Fertitta to take restaurant, gaming empire public

Cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin and Dogecoin exist as lines of computer code that are digitally signed each time they travel from one owner to the next. They have been growing in popularity for years and their values, which have been volatile, have surged during the pandemic. Bitcoin were valued at $55,081 each Wednesday afternoon, with Dogecoin at around 30 cents.

Fertitta’s enterprises first started accepting Dogecoin earlier this month, when Post Oak Motor Cars, a Bentley, Bugatti and Rolls-Royce dealership, for car purchases. Starting this week, crypto payments are being accepted at the Houston Rockets, Dogecoin so far being the most popular form. Crypto payment options will roll out at Mastro’s Steakhouse on Friday.

“We are opening in Mastro’s this week but our plan is to implement this in as many Landry’s restaurants, as well as our casinos, wherever it is possible in the upcoming weeks and months,” Fertitta said.

As a resident “youngster” in the company, Fertitta, 26, said it was impossible to ignore “cryptokid millionaires — they don’t have a dollar to their name, but they’re rich in Bitcoin.” He said it’s time to open up the company’s businesses in a way that caters to them.

“I felt like it was the right thing to do to make our products and services an acceptable marketplace for people with wealth,” he said.

The rollouts are relatively simple, he said. It requires the Bitpay software, an iPad and staff training. On the consumer side, he said it’s easier than paying with cash or credit.

Patrick Fertitta said he and his brother, Michael, started researching cryptocurrency a few years ago and, as it grew more credible, hired Trey Zeluff as Fertitta Entertainment’s inhouse crypto analyst and newly named director of digital assets. Over the past year, the three worked to incorporate the currencies into the family’s businesses and look for investments in the space.

The company is starting to hold cryptocurrencies on its balance sheet rather than converting it into cash. Zeluff said doing so offers the company an opportunity to diversify away from the dollar, which is subject to inflation after the federal government infused new money as a form of stimulus during the pandemic-driven recession.

“Holding Bitcoin is basically a way to hedge the inflation risk that comes from all the money we’ve been printing,” Zeluff said.

amanda.drane@chron.com

Twitter.com/amandadrane