Turkey Drafting Crypto Regulation — Central Bank Says No Intention to Ban Cryptocurrencies

The Turkish government is reportedly creating a regulatory framework for cryptocurrencies after two crypto exchanges in the country abruptly halted trading and are now being investigated for fraud. The government is reportedly planning to establish a central custodian bank among other initiatives.

The Turkish government is working on cryptocurrency regulation. Bloomberg reported on Tuesday that “The government is planning to establish a central custodian bank to eliminate counterparty risk,” citing a senior official familiar with the plans.

The Treasury & Finance Ministry, Capital Markets Board and financial crimes watchdog Masak are involved in establishing the crypto framework, the publication conveyed, adding that its preparations are expected to be completed within a few weeks.

Other than creating a central custodian bank, the Turkish authorities are also considering imposing a capital threshold for crypto exchanges and education requirements for executives at those companies.

Furthermore, the governor of the Turkish central bank, Sahap Kavcioglu, confirmed last week in an interview with local broadcasters, Kavcioglu, that the country’s Finance Ministry is working on wider regulations regarding cryptocurrencies. The governor added that the bank does not intend to ban cryptocurrencies. The central bank, however, recently banned the use of cryptocurrencies as a means of payment.

Following the central bank banning cryptocurrencies for payments, two Turkish crypto exchanges abruptly halted trading. Thodex and Vebitcoin are now being investigated for fraud. Sixty-two people have been detained in connection with Thodex and four people are detained in relation to Vebitcoin.

What do you think about Turkey drafting crypto regulation? Let us know in the comments section below.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not a direct offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or a recommendation or endorsement of any products, services, or companies. Bitcoin.com does not provide investment, tax, legal, or accounting advice. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.