A Full Guide to Bitcoin Trading Sites

Bitcoin is soaring at the moment. It is valued at more than $50,000 and experts even believe that the best is yet to come. This statement is based on the historical data that Bitcoin provides us with. Here’s the evidence. So far, there have been three halving events, with the latest one being in May 2020. The previous two were in mid-2012 and mid-2016. Both of these events led to spikes in value exactly a year and a half after they ended. After the 2012 halving event, Bitcoin spiked at $713 in January 2014, and after the 2016 halving, Bitcoin spiked at more than $19,000 at the end of 2017.

Since the third halving event took place in May 2020, experts believe that Bitcoin will spike at around autumn of 2021. That is the reason why so many people are now registering at trading sites and are looking to make a profit with Bitcoin. With that thought in mind, we decided to provide you with a full guide on how to use trading sites. Let’s check it out.

Step 1- Researching the Best Sites

The first step of the process requires you to do research. Not every trading site can guarantee you profit and not every trading site can maximize your profits. Check out which platforms are the most suitable for your region, read some reviews, and see how do they operate. The research will provide you with vital information on whether the site is credible and trustworthy or not.

Step 2 – Registering

After you’ve done your research and found the perfect trading site, comes the second step – registering. This process is pretty simple because all you have to do is provide the trading site with some basic information about yourself and select a payment method through which you will deposit money. In most cases, registering lasts just a minute.

Step 3 – Using its Services to Maximize Your Profits

Many reputable sites like Bitcoin Compass are not just marketplaces where you can buy and sell Bitcoins. They provide the traders with an additional service which is considered a powerful tool. This service includes an AI system that platforms like the one we just mentioned use to collect data about Bitcoin from the market.

After all the data is gathered, artificial intelligence analyzes it makes accurate predictions on what the future price of Bitcoin will be. The results are then shared with the traders who now possess vital information on when is the best time to sell their assets and maximize their profits. So, if you want to generate the highest possible revenue, make sure you use these types of services.

Why is the AI System Important and Beneficial to You?

Lastly, we are going to explain why it is important to use the AI system and how does this system help you earn the highest possible profit.

We all know that Bitcoin is a highly volatile cryptocurrency. That means that its price is subject to frequent changes. In this case, Bitcoin can go up and down in a matter of days. Let’s take Tesla and their investment as the perfect example. After Tesla announced that they have invested $1.5 billion in Bitcoin, its price went from $47,000 to over $50,000 in just a few days. There are tons of factors that affect the value and traders alone are not able to predict how this cryptocurrency will fluctuate.

But, the AI system can and does it with great precision because it can collect and analyze terabytes of data in minutes. It is very efficient and effective in what it does. The fact that the daily profitability rate at platforms like the one mentioned above is very high speaks just how good it is.