Safety issues could be a bigger, long-term risk. Tesla is still dealing with an investigation into a fatal crash in Texas this month involving one of its vehicles, in which the police say no one was behind the wheel. Tesla’s chief engineer cited new evidence yesterday that potentially contradicts that claim. And the company is trying to put out a P.R. crisis in China, after the state news media accused it of “being arrogant” in its handling of a customer’s complaints about her car’s brakes.

“The main line in the sand now for the bulls and bears is not the near-term chip shortage,” Dan Ives of Wedbush wrote in a research note this morning. More important to Tesla’s finances is its ability to grow in China, he wrote, which could account for 40 percent of its deliveries by next year.

Image

HERE’S WHAT’S HAPPENING

The U.S. will donate AstraZeneca vaccine doses to India. President Biden will send up to 60 million doses to help India quell its Covid-19 crisis, though only after U.S. officials test them for safety. Tech giants — including Google and Microsoft, both led by Indian-born executives — will also send supplies and funds to help.

U.S. population growth has slowed substantially. New Census Bureau data showed the second-slowest rate since 1790, as birthrates and immigration declined. The bureau also reported big changes to the political map, with the South and West gaining seats in Congress and New York, California and the Midwest losing representation.

The I.R.S. may get more money to go after tax evasion. Biden will propose giving the agency an extra $80 billion and additional authority to catch cheating by the wealthy and big corporations, The Times’s Jim Tankersley reports. Administration officials believe that could help raise $700 billion, which would assist in financing Biden’s infrastructure plans.

Et tu, UBS? The Swiss banking giant said it had lost $774 million from its exposure to Archegos, becoming yet another financial giant to be hurt by the investment fund’s meltdown. Nomura calculated its total hit from Archegos to be $2.3 billion and said it had mostly closed out its trading positions related to the firm.