In the latest sign of acceptance, Visa (NYSE:V) is betting big on cryptocurrency. In fact, CEO Alfred Kelly, as noted by Crypto Potato says Visa’s “Potential plans include enabling direct cryptocurrency purchases on all Visa cards worldwide, cryptocurrency conversion systems at Visa merchant checkpoints, and allowing financial institutions to settle cryptocurrency transactions with stable coins like USDC.” Kelly says Visa views Bitcoin and other cryptocurrency assets as “digital gold.” Other companies jumping on the cryptocurrency bandwagon include Tokens.com Corp. (NEO:COIN), MicroStrategy Inc. (NASDAQ:MSTR), Paypal Holdings Inc. (NASDAQ:PYPL), and HIVE Blockchain Technologies Ltd. (OTC:HVBTF).

Coupled with retail and institutional interest, cryptocurrencies could race to higher highs. MicroStrategy CEO Michael Saylor believes Bitcoin could one day have a market value of more than $100 trillion. Analysts including Anthony Pompliano, co-founder and partner at Morgan Creek Digital Assets, as noted by CNBC, says Bitcoin could rally to $500,000 by the end of the decade. “I think that bitcoin will eventually rise to become the global reserve currency. I think bitcoin will eventually be much, much larger than the gold market cap.”

Look at Tokens.com Corp. (NEO:COIN), for example

NEO is pleased to announce that Tokens.com, a cryptocurrency technology company, is now listed on the NEO Exchange. Tokens.com is available for trading under the symbol NEO:COIN.

Tokens.com provides investors with a simple and secure way to get exposure to the cryptocurrencies that power Decentralized Finance and non-fungible tokens (NFTs). This is achieved through Proof-of-Stake or Staking technology, the environmentally friendly alternative to crypto mining. The Company creates value for investors by earning Staking rewards and through the appreciation of its crypto assets used in the staking process.

Decentralized Finance is the new class of financial applications that are disrupting how financial services are delivered to consumers. Borrowing, lending, and trading are now able to function digitally without the need for third party intermediaries, and NFTs are redefining gaming, art, music, entertainment, and collectibles.

“Through our unique business plan, we’ve created significant shareholder value as a private entity,” commented Andrew Kiguel, CEO of Tokens.com and an experienced blockchain entrepreneur. “We’re now ready to bring our platform to a broader audience through a public listing on the NEO Exchange. We are impressed with the professionalism and innovation shown by the NEO team and are excited to partner with them on the next stage of our growth.”

The Tokens.com Board of Directors is comprised of several industry leaders, including the Company’s CEO and Co-Founder, Andrew Kiguel; Fred Pye, the Executive Chairman and CEO of 3iQ Corp; Jimmy Vaiopoulos, the former CFO of Hut 8 Mining Corp; and Andrew D’Souza, the CEO and Co-Founder of Clearco.

“As the decentralized finance space continues to grow and drive change within the financial industry, it’s more important than ever for companies to list with a senior exchange that can support that growth,” added Jos Schmitt, President and CEO of NEO. “Tokens.com is revolutionizing the crypto mining process, and as a tech-centric and innovative exchange, NEO is the perfect home for it. We look forward to providing increased liquidity, exposure, and visibility to Tokens.com and serving as a catalyst for their continued success.”

Investors can trade shares of NEO:COIN through their usual investment channels, including discount brokerage platforms and full-service dealers. The NEO Exchange is home to over 125 corporate and ETF listings, and consistently facilitates close to 15 percent of all Canadian trading volume. Click here for a complete view of all NEO-listed securities.

Other related developments from around the markets include:

Visa Inc. announced its fiscal second quarter 2021 financial results through an earnings release that will be furnished with the Securities and Exchange Commission on a Form 8-K and will be available on its Investor Relations website at http://investor.visa.com/sec-filings/default.aspx.

MicroStrategy Inc., the largest independent publicly-traded business intelligence company, announced financial results for the three-month period ended March 31, 2021 (the first quarter of its 2021 fiscal year). “MicroStrategy’s first quarter results were a clear example that our two-pronged corporate strategy to grow our enterprise analytics software business and acquire and hold bitcoin is generating substantial shareholder value. We had one of our strongest operational quarters in our software business in years, highlighted by 10% revenue growth and continued improvement in non-GAAP profitability. The investments we have made in our platform in recent years are driving greater customer adoption of MicroStrategy, particularly in the cloud,” said Michael J. Saylor, CEO, MicroStrategy Incorporated.

Paypal Holdings Inc. announced the launch of Checkout with Crypto, a new feature which significantly expands the utility of cryptocurrency. Available at millions of global online businesses and continuing to expand over the coming months, PayPal customers with cryptocurrency holdings in the U.S. will be able to choose to check out with crypto seamlessly within PayPal at checkout.

HIVE Blockchain Technologies Ltd. announced that, further to its announcement on March 25, 2021, it has completed the share swap transaction with DeFi Technologies Inc. pursuant to which HIVE will receive 10,000,000 common shares of DeFi Technologies, representing approximately 5% of the existing outstanding common shares of DeFi Technologies in exchange for 4,000,000 common shares of the Company, representing approximately 1% of the Company’s issued and outstanding common shares.

Legal Disclaimer / Except for the historical information presented herein, matters discussed in this article contains forward-looking statements that are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such statements. Winning Media is not registered with any financial or securities regulatory authority and does not provide nor claims to provide investment advice or recommendations to readers of this release. For making specific investment decisions, readers should seek their own advice. Winning Media is only compensated for its services in the form of cash-based compensation. Pursuant to an agreement Winning Media has been paid three thousand five hundred dollars for advertising and marketing services for Tokens.com Corp. by Tokens.com Corp. We own ZERO shares of Tokens.com Corp. Please click here for full disclaimer.

Contact Information:

2818047972

[email protected]