From high-profile design commissions to exciting listings, there is always something new happening in the world of real estate. In this roundup, AD PRO has everything you need to know.

On the Market

Behold This Hamptons Classic

A lovingly restored 1970s Hamptons home by modernist architect Charles Gwathmey is on the market for $9.25 million.

The Haupt Residence at 43 Gilberts Path in the Amagansett Dunes was one of Gwathmey’s earliest residential projects. Like his first house—a home for his parents also in Amagansett—the five-bedroom property sports a bold streak of yellow across the façade.

In addition to Min beds and Richard Shultz outdoor furniture, the home features numerous Gwathmey-designed built-ins, including dressers, bookcases, sofas, and even the dining room table, named “Rosalie” after his mother, according to the Wall Street Journal.

The house is listed with Cindy Scholz and Clayton Orrigo of Compass’s Hudson Advisory team.

Cryptocurrency Real Estate Arrives in L.A.

A Beverly Hills megamansion with a 20-foot water wall and 2,000-bottle wine cellar could be yours for $65 million—or the equivalent in bitcoin.

Elementi, an 18,000-square-foot estate in Trousdale Estates, is the result of a collaboration between SAOTA Architects and Luxford Group, the development firm led by Michael Chen.

Chen’s concept for the property was inspired by nature—specifically the stretch of Pacific Coast Highway that passes through Big Sur: Cross over the moat at the entrance and you’re greeted with that water wall—and a 150-year-old olive tree imported from Tuscany.

Cryptocurrency is increasingly becoming the coin of the realm in real estate: In 2020, an office building in downtown Zurich sold for $134 million via cryptocurrency.

The listing for Elementi, located at 1108 Wallace Ridge, is held by Michael Chen and Aaron Kirman of the Aaron Kirman Group at Compass.

Elementi, a Beverly Hills estate that is available to purchase with bitcoin. Photo: Douglas Friedman

Art

A Jeff Koons Moment in the West Village

Jeff Koons’s Corks (Couple). Photo: Evan Joseph Images, courtesy of 17 Jane Street

Jeff Koons has moved into 17 Jane Street, the new boutique West Village condo where Jennifer Lawrence recently snagged a home. Not literally—his 10-foot-bronze sculpture Corks (Couple) has been installed in the building’s lobby.

17 Jane is a private residential building, but architect Sir David Chipperfield designed the jewel-box lobby as a showcase for contemporary art visible from the sidewalk and the street.

To complement the neighborhood’s 19th-century brownstones, Roman-style bricks handmade by a centuries-old Danish brick-making firm comprise the building’s façade, transitioning to sculptural concrete at street level.