The language of space comes up a lot when people talk about investing on the internet. On r/WallStreetBets, the Reddit forum which has been credited with making US retailer GameStop a “meme” stock and causing a huge rally in its share price earlier this year, users say a stock is going “to the moon” when they anticipate its value will rise.

But bitcoin astrology takes the association to a whole new level. For those who follow it, the heavenly bodies themselves are clues as to what is to come. I find it fascinating that there could be a combination of this ancient, mystical practice with a technology many see as the future.

And I can see why many people find it an attractive prospect – not least because there are so many people out there who claim to know what’s going to happen next in cryptocurrency, and who are frequently wrong.

The freshest exclusives and sharpest analysis, curated for your inbox Email address is invalid Thank you for subscribing! Sorry, there was a problem with your subscription.

Financial astrology is just one of the interesting ways people are thinking about money that I would never have discovered were it not for the internet. Online money discussions have opened up communities like this one to all, even if – like astrology – they long predate the World Wide Web.

In the coming months I will be writing about other ways people are using, losing, and making money online, and how the internet has changed our relationship with money. Some of these financial practices are extremely risky. But the Reddit-fuelled rally in GameStop shares showed how important it is that we don’t look away from what’s going on online.

People who might previously have looked to family for advice are now following financial influencers.

In some ways, this is an amazing thing. But the internet has also made it easier than ever for scammers to target more people.

I hope to cover the light and dark sides, and everything in between. So if you spot something online that intrigues you, get in touch: alys.key@inews.co.uk