Betting on buses, bunkers and boats

Cabot Cliffs, shown above, is one of two championship 18-hole golf courses at the Cabot Links resort in Inverness. POSTMEDIA PHOTO - David Jala

Handicapped by the pandemic travel bans, Cape Breton’s award-winning Cabot Links resort has tapped into the federal Tourism Sector Financing Assistance Program for $14.25 million in loans. That’s about $400,000 a hole. Ambassatours Gray Line and Murphy’s on the Water are getting $20 million or so between them. But PEI’s Coach Atlantic Maritime Bus had to cut staff and make do with less than $1 million.

Raising the bar

Sheena Russell, founder and CEO of Made with Local, poses for a photo at her downtown Dartmouth office on Monday, April 26, 2021. Costco is carrying Made with Local's Granola Bar Mix at most of its locations in eastern Canada. - Ryan Taplin

Sheena Russell’s Made with Local granola business started small—a couple of hundred bars a week. Now she’s putting out 40,000 a month, has deals with Sobeys, Loblaw and Costco, and is in about 1,500 stores across the country.

Bigger fish to fry

Redfish need to be at or over 30 cm to get the best price in the market. - Contributed

Redfish harvesters are little blue these days. There are more fish but they’re smaller and need to get to the size of an oven mitt to fetch the best price. Meanwhile, those growing fish are eating shrimp that harvesters are chasing for a buck a pound.

Making a splash in Splashifax

John Rasenberg and Dave Wolpin needed three things, a lake, parking and population. They found it in Lower Sackville and are set to launch Splashifax water park. The floating playground will have the usual slides and such but the 70-foot inflatable unicorn’s a bit of a surprise.

Working together in Gros Morne

BonTours is planning to resume offering tours of Bonne Bay from its base in Norris Point this tourism season. - Contributed

Flat-topped mountains and wave-flecked seas won’t be enough to bring foreign visitors to Western Newfoundland’s jewel of a park. Businesses there are co-operating like never before and banking on short stay travellers from St. John’s or elsewhere in the region once the Atlantic Bubble is re-established.

PEI’s Jewell shines again

Ally Murphy is the new owner of Jewell's Country Market in Marshfield. - TERRENCE MCEACHERN

Jewell’s Country Market has seen a lot of change. Sold by cannabis producer Edwin Jewell to Chris and Zuzana Seemann a few years back, it’s reopening under the ownership of UPEI business grad Ally Murphy.

Northern Pulp buys a reprieve

The Northern Pulp mill in Abercrombie spews pollution into the atmosphere. It is now closed. - Gerry Ferrel - Contributed

Plant workers should put Shelley Fitzpatrick on their Christmas list. She’s the B.C. judge who okayed a deal to keep the idled Pictou County mill’s creditors at bay for another six months. Northern Pulp plans to borrow $6 million from its parent company, top up the pension and prepare a new environmental assessment it hopes leads to a reopening.

PERSPECTIVES

ZIOBROWSKI: Strike ban scotches Halifax windfall

Peter Ziobrowski says Quebec’s move to force striking Montreal longshoremen back to work means no cargo bump for Halifax. A sticking point for dockworkers was mandatory overtime and weekend work.

BUFFETT ON BITCOIN: Not really a fan

That’s an understatement. Warren Buffett’s called it rat poison squared. But he’ll likely be asked about it during Berkshire Hathaway’s online annual meeting Saturday. For a sunnier take on the king of internet money, what it is and why you should care, click here for Halifax crypto-consultant Keegan Francis’ explainer.

That’s the Wrap!

Got a tip or something to say, email [email protected].

Back in a week. Until then, live safe but dream dangerously.