Dear Anon,

My heart sank when I read your story. You have been scammed by the most ruthless and loathsome type of crook. Someone who exploits the trust of a person who is looking for friendship or love through a dating service has got to be the lowest of the low. It makes my blood boil that he (or possibly she or they, as you have no way of knowing whether it is an individual or gang behind this scam) not only stole all your savings but urged you to take out a bank loan to squeeze yet more money out of you.

You believed that the details you saw on Facebook Dating, of a handsome 32-year-old from Orpington in south London, were genuine. His profile stated that, like you, he enjoyed sport and claimed his favourite food was “cola chicken wraps”. The words he used to best describe himself were “exercise, health, sunshine”. He should have added his occupation of “greedy exploiter of innocent people”.

You trusted this would-be romantic interest, but once he had gained your confidence, he embarked on his wicked plan to defraud you. You are not alone: Action Fraud said that £78.6m had been stolen in dating scams in the past 13 months, with victims losing on average £9,573.

I contacted Binance on your behalf. I felt the series of transactions, passing from your bank to buy the cryptocurrency Bitcoin, and then out again to a fake app masquerading as a genuine service, should have raised a red flag. But it said there was little it could have done, as these accounts were not like traditional bank accounts.

Cryptocurrency is held in a digital account called a “wallet”, which contains a security key that corresponds to the wallet’s address. These addresses are not registered with a central organisation to allow for checks. There are databases where cryptocurrency exchanges do share information about dubious accounts, but Binance said that unless a rogue address had been flagged up, it could not know in advance when one was suspicious. When you reported your ordeal, Binance blacklisted the address and the associated accounts.

The company explained it could not recover assets once a purchase had been recorded on the blockchain, the digital ledger for Bitcoin transactions.

All in all, investing in cryptocurrency is a risky business as it is not regulated and investors can lose everything if things go wrong.