Bitcoin: Expert discusses recent drop in cryptocurrency value

FREE now SUBSCRIBE Invalid email Make the most of your money by signing up to our newsletter fornow When you subscribe we will use the information you provide to send you these newsletters. Sometimes they'll include recommendations for other related newsletters or services we offer. Our Privacy Notice explains more about how we use your data, and your rights. You can unsubscribe at any time.

Bitcoin's value has began to rise again after a chaotic last couple of weeks. The cryptocurrency was valued at £25,000 on January 5 before rising to a price of £30,000 on January 7. But following this, it endured its worst decline since March last year, losing around 20 percent of its value in just two days. The drop may have deterred many, as volatile price swings leave investors unsure about the long term profitability of the cryptocurrency.

Trending

However, a former Goldman-Sachs hedge fund chief claimed that Bitcoin will reach a value of $1million (£738,000) in the long term – suggesting that there could still be profit to be made for investors. Raoul Pal, who has allocated more than 50 percent of his capital to Bitcoin, argued that prices could breach the million mark in five years. He added that many institutional funds will adopt the digital currency as the economy will take a long time to recover from the coronavirus pandemic. He told Stansberry Research in October: "Just from what I know from all of the institutions, all of the people I speak to, there is an enormous wall of money coming into this.

Bitcoin news: Bitcoin values could reach over £700,000 according to an expert

Bitcoin news: Pal has invested heavily in Bitcoin

"It's an enormous wall of money — just the pipes aren't there to allow people to do it yet, and that's coming. But it's on everybody's radar screen, and there's a lot of smart people working on it." He continued: "The economy's not going to recover for a lot longer than we expect. "There's no stimulus around, and we've got more problems to come in Europe, the US, and elsewhere. And businesses don't have enough cash flow. "They're closing in droves. And that's what I called the insolvency phase." Mr Pal claimed that his significant investment in Bitcoin could expose him to a big downward dip in profits, but argued the potential upside is "much bigger". READ MORE: Bitcoin 'will reach £73,000 value by end of 2021' in startling claim

Bitcoin news: He predicted a $1million value

He explained: "My trading positions are relatively small, because I don't think there's as much opportunity as there is in Bitcoin. So really, mainly, a bit of cash, some gold, and Bitcoin. "And I'm even toying with the idea of selling my gold to buy bitcoin, more Bitcoin." Morgan Creek Digital co-founder Anthony Pompliano predicted that by the end of 2021, the cryptocurrency would hold a value of $100,000 (£73,000). He detailed his prediction, made in August 2019, to CNN's Julia Chatterley. He said: “Whenever we get to a recessive period or kind of slowing growth, central banks have kind of two tools. DON'T MISS

Bitcoin 'will reach £73,000 value by end of 2021' in startling claim [INSIGHT]

Bitcoin uproar as investors warned of 'rapid collapse' in value [ANALYSIS]

Martin Lewis' Bitcoin warning revealed: 'You could lose everything!' [INSIGHT]

Bitcoin news: Bitcoin is a cryptocurrency

Bitcoin news: Pompliano has also backed Bitcoin values to rise