My sister revealed that she often records phone conversations that she has with our father without his knowledge. She says she does it because he is so “funny,” i.e., eccentric, but I get the impression that she is laughing more at him than with him. I find his conversations less humorous than distressing, since he is often, at the best of times, in a state of heightened psychological dysregulation and anxiety, and the pandemic has just made things worse. Because of my sister’s behavior, my niece has grown up thinking there’s nothing wrong or unethical with recording conversations without the other person’s knowledge or consent and has herself started to do this.

When I found out what my sister was doing, I was uneasy and told her that it was illegal to record someone without their consent. Her rapid retort was, “It’s not in New York,” where she lives, as if that made it OK. I did not address my ethical concerns and am uncertain how to do so now, because my sister can be rather vicious, and I fear her wrath. At the same time, I think that it’s terrible that she is recording my father, who would feel hurt and humiliated if he knew, and that her daughter is learning that this is OK. It flies in the face of the Golden Rule. I’ve thought about telling my father but don’t think that’s a good course of action. I don’t know what effect my calling her to task on the behavior would have except to alienate her. Do I just let it all go? Just because Siri and Alexa do it all the time — I do not own or support use of either — doesn’t mean the rest of us should. Name Withheld

“It isn’t illegal” is the first refuge of a scoundrel — or anyway, of people who know they’re doing something sketchy. Many of the most hurtful, cruel and despicable things people do are perfectly lawful. (And some unlawful things are perfectly harmless.) The point isn’t that it’s always wrong to record people without their consent. There are instances in which a citizen may well have reason to record a conversation with a law-enforcement officer, for example. But in family conversations, we have a reasonable expectation that our remarks are not being captured for posterity. Your sister is betraying your father’s trust.

How serious the betrayal is depends, in part, on what she’s doing with these recordings. Is she playing them back to herself for kicks and giggles before drifting off to sleep? Or does she share clips with a WhatsApp group chat? In any case, she probably wouldn’t be making them if they weren’t going to be listened to, and you’re rightly troubled by actions that would wound your father if he knew about them.