Bonded.Finance (BOND) Token Is Now Listed on Bitcoin.com Exchange

press release

PRESS RELEASE. Bitcoin.com Exchange is ecstatic to announce the listing of BOND, being available to trade on the 2nd June 2021 at 12:00PM UTC. BOND was created by the Bonded.Finance team, as the driver and receipt of value within their platform. BOND will start trading with BTC and USDT pairs.

What is Bonded.Finance?

With nearly 7000 trackable assets and some 700 exchanges in crypto, it is an understatement to say that liquidity is scattered and that early stage projects as tradable assets make for capricious token holders. Even the meteoric rise of DeFi has done little to change this as lending/borrowing protocols and the true earning potential of tokens are realized only by a select few cryptos. Bonded Finance sees a massive opportunity in this. With crypto maturing as an asset class, there are scores of well-capitalized projects with solid volume and price histories to go with deliverables, yet, they have not been afforded the opportunity to partake in the decentralized financial services movement. Bonded has identified some fifty billion USD in untapped liquidity in this presently underserved altcoin market and has set out to aggregate these tokens to provide DeFi protocols through their algorithm-driven “smart instruments.” Bonded’s aim is to bridge the gap between established and nascent altcoin projects to provide not just traditional and DeFi services but ultimately, to create a network of shared value.

What is the BOND token?

The Bond token is inherent to the network as the sole driver for the exchange and receipt of value. Network fees, liquidations, collected interest, provider rewards and network incentives are all rewarded to Bond holders and liquidity providers. This stems from Bonded’s decentralized and trustless underpinnings with much of its utility derived from actual revenues. As a decentralized, eventually fully autonomous suite of products, there will be no salaries or overhead or any “off the top,” rather, this end-to-end solution for lending, borrowing, indexing and repurposing of capital and the generated revenues all the flow through the token as the sole incentivizer. Future uses include insurance for borrowers, early access to the Bond stable coin and eventually, full governance. And innovation. Beginning in June, Bonded’s “stacking rewards program,” will grant Bonded liquidity providers tokens from IDOs. These upstart projects are aiming to bolster their go to market strategies by gaining exposure to the Bond community by having the option to open lending markets, see their token represented in a basket of altcoins and ultimately, give them earning power and stability on the open market. As Bonded continues its development, new assets will be available for borrowing and lending, alongside new products including index protocols, synthetic assets and the release of the bToken, Bonded’s hybrid algorithmic stable coin.

Strong Endorsement

Danish Chaudhry, CEO of Bitcoin.com Exchange, shared his views on Bonded.Finance, and their respective token BOND: “The team at Bonded.Finance is run by some great individuals, and with this experience have developed a marvelous incentive-heavy network architecture, and still at its infancy. Many projects aim to tackle and gain market share in the lending ecosystem, but do not tackle this in the same way the Bonded.Finance team have. I believe they will be the pioneers in algorithmic smart instruments and decentralised financial products for digital assets.”



Chaudhry continues on by saying; “We’re very excited to see how Bonded.Finance will continue to empower their vision for the future of DeFi, and gain further outreach with our outstanding community at the exchange.”

“DeFi products are only as good as their network. Android may have a superior OS but that hasn’t slowed sales of the iPhone. Crypto will be no different but the opportunity is now as everyone jockeys for position in the hopes of not just capturing but keeping users—and that’s asking a lot. For us, that begins by rallying these longstanding communities, giving their token earning power and a reason to hang around. Outside the network, expanding awareness, visibility and opportunity to acquire the Bond token is something we must do in lockstep. Bitcoin.com is a longstanding name and a boutique exchange that we believe will bring in new users and we’re excited to work with them,” states Paul Mak, CEO of Bonded.

About Bitcoin.com Exchange

The mission of Bitcoin.com Exchange is to empower people from all over the world to trade cryptocurrencies with ease and confidence, from first-time traders to advanced trading professionals. With high liquidity, 24/7 multilingual support and dozens of trading pairs, complemented with a high level of security, it offers an attractive platform for trading any cryptocurrency. Within one year since launch, on average, the exchange has been visited by more than 500K active traders per month, and this number continues to grow as you read this sentence.

About Bonded.Finance

The Bonded platform was created to incubate and deploy experimental, high-yield, smart-contract driven financial instruments that push the bounds of open finance. Bonded is an algorithmic model that aims to unlock, aggregate, and de-risk ~50 billion in dormant value distributed amongst untapped digital assets by allowing supporters of qualifying altcoin projects the opportunity to leverage assets and realize their value.

This is a press release. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the promoted company or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in the press release.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons