Man Offers to Buy 111 Tesla Model 3s if Elon Musk's Company Accepts Bitcoin Cash for Payments

On April 20, a video stemming from the Youtube channel called “1stmil.com” has the Bitcoin Cash community talking. The host of the channel sitting in a Tesla dealership parking lot explains in his recent video that if Elon Musk gets Tesla to accept bitcoin cash directly for cars, he plans to commit to purchasing 111 Tesla Model 3s.

111 Tesla Model 3s to be Purchased if Elon Musk Gets Tesla to Accept Bitcoin Cash

Not too long ago, Tesla the electric car manufacturer announced accepting bitcoin (BTC) for payments and also mentioned that the coins wouldn’t be sold for fiat. Just recently, the host of the Youtube channel 1stmil.com claims he will buy 111 Tesla Model 3 cars.

However, the host of the educational Youtube channel that teaches “people learn how to make their first million dollars,” wants Elon Musk to accept bitcoin cash (BCH) in exchange for the offer. 1stmil.com’s host is a Tesla fan and the model can be seen in a variety of his prior videos.

He’s also at a Tesla dealership parking lot and shows a wallet on his smartphone loaded with BCH that can purchase up to three Tesla Model 3 cars.

“As you can see I’m back at Tesla again,” the 1stmil.com host said. “They don’t know that I am here and I want to make this a surprise for all the Tesla people as well, particularly for Elon Musk. As a special celebration of 10x in [bitcoin cash], me and a friend of mine, who is a big promoter of bitcoin cash came up with great ideas about how to get Elon Musk to accept bitcoin cash for payments.”

‘Many Bitcoin Cash Holders Have a Lot of Money and Want to Spend It’

The 1stmil.com host also explained how Tesla is accepting bitcoin (BTC) for payments and the company is not transferring the funds into fiat.

“It’s my suggestion,” the Youtuber notes. “Not just me, but many other bitcoin cash holders have a lot of money… we want to spend it. Let me just make a commitment, Elon… If you are going to accept bitcoin cash as payment, my phone to your phone, or to Tesla’s phone… Then I hereby am officially committing to buy 111 Tesla Model 3s. Yes, you heard me right, 111 Tesla Model 3s.”

The video host further says that he hopes Elon Musk can tweet out to his Twitter followers that Tesla will be accepting bitcoin cash (BCH) for payments. The Youtube video was extremely popular on the Reddit forum r/btc with over 500 upvotes and a number of BCH proponents discussing the video.

“I live in the same city as this guy,” one Redditor wrote. “Already left him a comment on the video in case he wants to collaborate on local BCH adoption. Glad to know there are other BCH peeps nearby,” he added. Following the video, the 1stmil.com host published two more Youtube videos pertaining to the same subject.

What do you think about the proposal to purchase 111 Tesla Model 3s if Elon Musk gets Tesla to accept bitcoin cash payments? Let us know what you think about this subject in the comments section below.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons, Youtube,

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not a direct offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or a recommendation or endorsement of any products, services, or companies. Bitcoin.com does not provide investment, tax, legal, or accounting advice. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.