Steve Wozniak’s EFFORCE (WOZX) Now Listed on Bitcoin.com Exchange and Opens Platform to the Public

press release

PRESS RELEASE. Bitcoin.com Exchange is thrilled to announce the listing of WOZX, being available to trade on the 21st April 2021 at 10:00AM UTC. WOZX was created by the EFFORCE team, including Apple Co-founder Steve Wozniak, as the energy savings token to allow contributors of their EFFORCE platform to benefit from the energy savings generated by efficiency projects worldwide. WOZX will start trading with ETH and USDT pairs.

At the same time EFFORCE opens to the public its software platform after finishing the closed beta and launching the new EFFORCE Genesis Pool (https://app.efforce.io/).

In a constant effort to bridge the gap between the retail market and energy efficiency, the EFFORCE team spent the past few months designing a product roadmap which will help create an increasing understanding about a rather complex, multi-party ecosystem.

What is EFFORCE?

The Energy Efficiency market is a complex financial system. Thanks to EFFORCE, this market is becoming easily accessible to everyone for the first time. The linking between the financing partners and those in need of investments to improve the energy efficiency of their structures is made possible by Energy Service Companies (E.S.Co).

Through Energy Performance Contracts (EPC), these structured companies are able to generate returns on initial contributions: energy efficiency translates into savings in bills for the beneficiaries. The EFFORCE platform solves the three main problems of the energy efficiency market:

The difficulty of putting contributors and savers in contact.

The size of the contribution required.

The type of financial return.

Through EFFORCE, energy saving financed by the contributor is tokenized and used or sold to energy-intensive consumers, who can thus stop paying their bills. Ultimately, the mission behind EFFORCE is that it wishes to be: The first blockchain platform that allows users to participate and benefit from worldwide energy efficiency projects.

By commoditizing energy savings EFFORCE has created a new tradable asset class in the commodities market.

Why choose WOZX?

The EFFORCE Token (WOZX) is a utility token that functions as the certificate of the energy-saving project initiation and cooperation by Consumers and Savers with EFFORCE. The EFFORCE Token (WOZX) functions as the privilege qualification of well pursued energy-saving projects.

For example: Contributors who want to take part in energy-saving projects on the platform may be required to lock 1 token for each 1 USDT of contribution. This mechanism would enjoy the potential to activate a huge market by a certain locking requirement rate, such as 1 EFFORCE token: 10 USDT, which of course would vary from project to project according to market situation and the decision of the project team. At least 1% of total energy savings achieved of all the projects will be distributed to all EFFORCE Token holders. The percentage could be adjusted as decided through the governance mechanism of the EFFORCE platform. EFFORCE Token holders may use their tokens as rights and interests such as voting rights for the general governance, such as the ratio of redistribution of energy savings, etc. The token can be used to stimulate the whole platform ecology.

The scheme below shows the role of the EFFORCE token and how it will affect the whole ecosystem. The circulation of the token is enhanced by the use of the platform as a major tool for energy efficiency.

Strong Endorsement

Danish Chaudhry, CEO of Bitcoin.com Exchange, shared his views on EFFORCE, and their respective utilise token: “The recent global situation has shown us the importance of working together as a worldwide unit for the betterment of the community, and with it comes increased interest in energy efficiency, which has seen rapid growth over the past couple of years. With EFFORCE’s platform having the ability to connect contributors and consumers together in a way not seen before in the blockchain space truly is something very valuable for the industry.”

Chaudhry continues on by saying; “We’re very excited to see how EFFORCE will continue to empower their vision for the future, of not just the blockchain space, but the global energy space entirely. With the listing of the EFFORCE token (WOZX), we’re making the team’s token more accessible to a broader audience and supporting its growth effectively.”

Sergio Carloni, CEO of EFFORCE: “We have worked hard on our product and on realizing our vision, we are honored to announce that everyone globally can now use EFFORCE and we have chosen to do so with an important partner like Bitcoin.com. The commoditization of energy savings is a necessary step to enable the scaling of energy efficiency worldwide and accelerate the decarbonization by reducing energy consumption.”

About Bitcoin.com Exchange

The mission of Bitcoin.com Exchange is to empower people from all over the world to trade cryptocurrencies with ease and confidence, from first-time traders to advanced trading professionals. With high liquidity, 24/7 multilingual support and dozens of trading pairs, complemented with a high level of security, Bitcoin.com Exchange offers an attractive platform for trading any cryptocurrency. Within one year since launch, on average, the exchange has been visited by more than 500K active traders per month, and this number continues to grow as you read this sentence.

About EFFORCE

Co Founded by Steve Wozniak, EFFORCE is the first Blockchain platform that allows everyone to participate and benefit from worldwide energy efficiency projects. By commoditizing energy savings EFFORCE has created a new tradable asset class that facilitates the scaling of energy efficiency investments and accelerates the transition to a sustainable future. With a 250 Billion market, the Efficiency sector has twice the potential of renewable energy investments while still in its inception phase therefore allowing for infinite opportunities. Come join EFFORCE at efforce.io

This is a press release. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the promoted company or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in the press release.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons