Crypto-First Trading App SimpleFX to Introduce Staking

press release

PRESS RELEASE. SimpleFX, one of the world’s leading trading apps with both crypto and fiat accounts is going to invite traders to try out their beta staking module.

The trading app is already recognized as a great alternative to mainstream Robinhood or eToro platforms. They win new users by being Independent of Wall Street, banks, and hedge funds.

If you want to profit from growing stock or cryptocurrency markets all you can sign up with your e-mail, buy and sell Tesla, Alphabet, Toyota, or any other global stocks, silver, gold, Bitcoin, altcoins, and more with cryptocurrency accounts. Use any leverage up to 1:500.

SimpleFX is a renowned trading app that has been in business since 2014. Was one of the first brokers offering cryptocurrency accounts. You can sign up for Bitcoin, Ethereum, Binance Coin accounts with just an email.

The broker’s agile team is improving its tools constantly. Recently they have created a native HarmonyOS app for Huawei users.

SimpleFX’s purpose is to provide the easiest way to trade globally. SimpleFX is mobile-first, but you can use the same app across all devices. Use the same accounts with SimpleFX WebTrader, native iOS, Android, or Huawei app or MetaTrader4.

The team is always up to date with the newest cryptocurrency trend. They offer the lowest transfer fees available, that’s why they have recently introduced Binance Coin, Binance USD as well as the fastest and most economic Binance Smart Chain.

If you’d like to trade a stock or any other asset they still don’t have in their offer, give them a shout, and chances are they are already working on it, if not, they will include your proposition in the products roadmap.

At the moment SimpleFX is working on a staking feature that would allow traders to earn steady interest on their coins. They will launch early registration for the feature soon.

Wall Street has zero control over them. Sign up with an email address, make a deposit, and cash in profits.

Using just your email address you can also become a SimpleFX affiliate. You don’t need to deposit a single cent to start earning lifetime revenue share (up to 30%) from your referral links.

Sign up to SimpleFX with an email, give it a try, and ride the ever-exciting global financial markets.

Here’s why SFX is killing it:

no ID verification for cryptocurrency accounts. Sign up with e-mail

Invest Bitcoin, Ethereum, Tether, Binance Coin, and more (12 cryptocurrency accounts)

No minimum deposits

No fees

Up to 50x leverage on stocks $1,000 depo = $50,000

Up to 500x leverage on Forex $1,000 depo = $50,000

Reputable – over seven years in the market

Global reach – check out for your local currency (over 20 fiat currencies)

Great support English, Spanish, Portuguese and more (probably in your language)

SimpleFX is independent and not controlled by Wall Street

Active development team willing to add new features especially for you

Frequently updated WebTrader (working in every browser), native iOS and Android apps

The most efficient cryptocurrency payments. Binance Smart Chain (BEP-20) fast transfers with super low fees (100 times lower than Ethereum ERC-20)

This is a press release. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the promoted company or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in the press release.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons