HIGHLAND HEIGHTS, Ohio

Communications fraud: Miner Road

A resident reported April 12 that he was the victim of a scam in which someone claiming to be from The Illuminating Company called him and said there was a problem with his bill. The caller requested that he send Bitcoin to resolve the issue.

The man, 51, went to a Bitcoin machine in Euclid and transferred $1,000. The incident is under investigation.

Neighbor dispute: Bishop Road

A resident said April 6 that a neighbor speeds out of his driveway and down the street regularly and she is concerned that there could be a serious accident.

She said the neighbor’s yard is also an eyesore, with multiple vehicles, trash cans and landscaping equipment. Special attention was requested for the speeding driver and the building department was notified of the other complaints.

Disturbance: Bishop Road

A resident reported April 7 that his wife was drunk and walking with her 9-year-old son. Responding officers located the woman and the situation was adjusted.

Falsification: Highland Road

A woman said April 8 that she had received a notification from the courts that there was a warrant for her arrest, related to a traffic stop one year earlier. She claimed someone else used her identity when cited for traffic violations. Police are investigating.

Harassing communication: Lynford Circle

A resident was said April 10 to be receiving threatening phone calls from a man in East Cleveland, who is claiming he is owed money from an unpaid drug transaction. It was determined that the calls occurred in East Cleveland, where the matter had also been reported. Special attention was given to the woman’s property.

Criminal mischief: Miner Road

The marquee at Brainard Crossings was found to be marked with graffiti April 11. An unknown person had written a vulgar word on it. Officers notified a manager at Fitworks, who said they would attempt to clean it.

Property damage: Miner Road

A resident reported April 11 that her mailbox had been damaged overnight by a vehicle and a mirror from that vehicle had been left behind.

Read more news from the Sun Messenger.