Bitcoin is slowly making a huge progress in the world. Not only can people use it to make a profit, but this cryptocurrency is also being accepted as a payment method at many local and global businesses. Some of the global brands that accept Bitcoin are Starbucks, Microsoft, AT&T, Expedia, Wikipedia, and Whole Foods.

Recently, even Tesla made a massive move after they decided to invest around $1.5 billion in this cryptocurrency and announced that they plan on accepting it as a payment method. It goes without saying that there are numerous things that you can purchase with Bitcoin, but we wanted to explore the entertainment area and see how can Bitcoin be used in the gaming industry. Before we unveil the details, let’s resolve one thing that many people are interested to know – how do you make money with Bitcoin?

Bitcoin Profits

To make a profit with Bitcoin, you must first earn it. The best way to do that is with mining. Mining is an important part of Bitcoin as it sustains its blockchain network. This is a process in which miners record Bitcoin transactions and update the blockchain daily. These transactions are known as blocks and each completed block comes with Bitcoin as a reward.

After a certain amount of Bitcoins are earned, comes the second part – selling them. This is far more difficult than it seems due to the fact that Bitcoin is a highly volatile cryptocurrency. But, reputable trading sites like bitcoinprime.io use the latest AI systems to analyze the market, collect data, and use it to make accurate predictions on its future fluctuations. The daily profitability rate here is enormous, which is why this trading site has thousands of users from all around the world.

Now that we’ve gotten this figured out, let’s check out what are the gaming options with Bitcoin.

Online Casinos

Online casinos have managed to revolutionize the gambling industry. These sites provide the players with the next level of excitement and fun. They feature hundreds of fantastic games by some of the world’s most renowned game providers like Microgaming, NetEnt, Play’n GO, Evolution, Yggdrasil, and Nolimit City.

Players can access them at any time and place and due to the fact that they utilize the latest HTML5 technology, these sites are fully optimized for mobile use, as well. All players have to do to gain access to these games is registered; this process is simple and it lasts just a minute. In the recent period, numerous online casinos started accepting Bitcoin as a payment method due to the fact that it provides instant and secure transactions. The only thing to remember when registering at online casinos is to play for entertainment purposes only. Gaming is all about having fun, not taking any unnecessary risks.

Buy an Xbox

At the beginning of this article, we mentioned that Microsoft is one of the global brands that accept Bitcoin payments. With this cryptocurrency, you can gain access to numerous services and products from this tech conglomerate, but the best product that you can buy, as well as one that is connected to the topic, is Xbox. This gaming console supports some of the best games on the market and thanks to Bitcoin, you can purchase it with just a few clicks.

Steam

Steam is the biggest gaming platform on the planet. Numerous gamers share their experience here and are even able to make money from the games that they play. Valve is the name of the company that created Steam back in 2003, and recently, they have partnered with this cryptocurrency and started offering their games for purchase with Bitcoin. This is a major move as it opens many new doors.