Advertiser Disclosure: At Slickdeals, we work hard to find the best deals. Some products in our articles are from partners who may provide us with compensation, but this doesn’t change our opinions.

In 2008, Bitcoin became the first decentralized cryptocurrency. Since then, widespread adoption and acceptance have been slow. But in 2021, the currency is legitimate as a payment method and an investment.

But while many people aren’t concerned about converting their cash into Bitcoin, others may feel more reluctant. Whether you’re all-in on Bitcoin or you’re intrigued, but don’t necessarily want to use your own money to invest, here are some ways you can earn the cryptocurrency with your everyday spending without changing much about your habits.

3 Ways to Earn Bitcoin Every Day

Cash-back rewards have been around for a long time, but the chance to earn Bitcoin is becoming increasingly popular. If you’re interested in earning cryptocurrency instead of points, miles or cash back on your everyday shopping, here’s how you can do it.

Bitcoin Rewards Credit Card

In early 2021, BlockFi launched the world’s first credit card that offers cryptocurrency instead of more traditional forms of credit card rewards. The BlockFi Bitcoin Rewards Credit Card offers 1.5% back on every purchase you make in the form of Bitcoin.

You’ll also earn $250 worth of Bitcoin after you spend $3,000 in the first three months, along with 3.5% Bitcoin rewards on all purchases during the first four to six months from account opening.

Each month, the rewards you earned from the previous month will be added to your BlockFi Interest Account, which offers up to 8.6% APY.

The only drawback is that the card charges a $200 annual fee. In other words, it may be better for Bitcoin enthusiasts than for people who are just looking to dip their toes into the water. Read our full review of BlockFi.

Bitcoin Debit Cards

While there’s only one Bitcoin-powered credit card, there are several debit cards that offer the cryptocurrency as a reward every time you swipe. While some charge fees, there are low and even no-fee cards available. Some of the options include:

Story continues

BlockCard: You can earn up to 6.38% back, depending on how much TERN you stake. You can then exchange your TERN for Bitcoin. It charges a $5 monthly fee, but that fee is waived if you spend more than $750 on the card every month.

Crypto.com Visa Card: You’ll earn between 1% and 8% back, depending on how much CRO you have, which is Crypto.com’s native coin. Once earned, you can exchange CRO for Bitcoin. The card has no enrollment fee or annual fee.

Coinbase Card (coming soon): Will offer up to 4% back, and there’s no signup fee or annual fee.

Each card has its own features, but they all offer the chance to earn high rewards rates. Before you apply for one, though, make sure you understand the fees, and how they’ll impact the value you gain from using your card. Also, read the fine print to determine whether there are any limitations or restrictions for earning and redeeming your Bitcoin.

Finally, compare these cards with what you could get with a regular debit or credit card. In order to get the best rewards rates, you typically need to own a lot of cryptocurrency, so the rates may be mediocre for beginners.

Online Shopping Portals

Shopping portals are a dime a dozen. In addition to cash-back websites, there are also portals for various credit card, airline and hotel rewards programs. Now, though, you can also earn Bitcoin. Lolli has a browser extension for Chrome and Firefox, which notifies you when you’re shopping with one of its 1,000+ retail partners.

When you checkout using Lolli, you can earn up to 30% back in the form of Bitcoin rewards. Some popular retailers that participate include Nike, Groupon, eBay, Sam’s Club, Microsoft and Staples.

The Bottom Line

If you’re looking for opportunities to earn Bitcoin without digging into your savings, there are a handful of options available. Before you apply for a card, though, make sure you consider all the benefits and drawbacks. With some debit cards, for instance, you won’t be earning Bitcoin directly, but you can exchange the cryptocurrency you earn for Bitcoin.

With shopping portals like Lolli, earning Bitcoin can be incredibly easy because you just add the browser extension, and it lets you know when you can use it to earn the currency.

Even then, though, you’ll want to compare what you could get with Lolli to what you can earn elsewhere. The website Cashback Monitor lists the rewards rate for a long list of cash-back websites, as well as shopping portals for airlines and hotel brands.

Related Financial Offers

>>WIN: Biggest Bank Bonuses for Opening New Accounts

>>EARN: Best High-Yield Checking Accounts

>>SAVE: Best High-Yield Savings Accounts

>>FREE: Best Free Checking Accounts

>>INVEST: Biggest Brokerage Bonuses: Earn Promo Cash and Free Stock

>>SECURE: Best Small Business Checking Accounts

>>RECOVER: How to Improve Your Credit Score Quickly for Free

While we work hard on our research, we do not always provide a complete listing of all available offers from credit-card companies and banks. And because offers can change, we cannot guarantee that our information will always be up to date, so we encourage you to verify all the terms and conditions of any financial product before you apply.



