200-Year-Old American Wine Shop Now Accepts Cryptocurrencies

Nearly every day now a new company is announcing the acceptance of cryptocurrencies in some form or another. Now one of the world’s largest fine wine auction houses and America’s oldest wine shop Acker has revealed digital currency acceptance to pay for auction payments and retail wine purchases.

Wine Shop Acker Jumps Into the Crypto Space

This week the wine shop and auction house Acker revealed that it is now accepting cryptocurrencies for goods and services. Effective immediately Acker will accept BTC, BCH, ETH, DOGE, and three stablecoins via the payment processor Bitpay.

Moreover, the wine company that started in 1820 has also added BTC and ETH to the company’s markets web portal. During the announcement, Acker Chairman John Kapon said he believes that cryptocurrencies are here to stay.

“Cryptocurrencies are no longer a passing fad, and, as one of the oldest licensed businesses in America, Acker is proud to accept this novel form of payment as we continue to evolve in our third century as a company,” Kapon remarked.

Acker Plans to Reveal More Digital Innovations In the Future

Kapon is a third-generation wine merchant and invoked the company’s auction business in 1998. Since then Acker gained notoriety offering services including “cellar consultations, a deep retail inventory of fine and rare wine for immediate sale.”

“Cryptocurrency is here to stay,” Kapon further added. “We are excited to offer these additional options for payment in this ever-changing and shifting world. We look forward to growing our already robust network of wine lovers and making more exciting announcements in the digital space soon.”

According to Acker the company will be launching a “live online” auction in Hong Kong on April 23rd and 24th and returns to Delaware on May 12th and 13th.

What do you think about Acker supporting digital currency payments for goods and services? Let us know what you think about this subject in the comments section below.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons