WILLIAMSPORT – A Bloomsburg couple has been accused of fraudulently using Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) funds to illegally obtain loans that were used to purchase more than $350,000 in bitcoins.

Darryl Corradini, 63, and Vicki Hackbenberg, 57, are to be arraigned Friday on charges contained in an indictment unsealed in U.S. Middle District Court.

Part of the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act (CARES), the Paycheck Protection Program authorizes forgivable loans to small businesses facing financial difficulties during the pandemic.

Corradini and Hackenberg are accused of creating a shell corporation, CGM Realty LLC, in December 2019 to apply for PPP loans.

They also are charged with using false and forged documents to open accounts in the name of the business with an unidentified lender and bitcoin trading firms Athena Bitcoin Inc. and Athena Investor Services in Chicago.

Among the fake documents, according to the indictment, was one used to open an account with Athena that showed CGM Realty had a $525,000 balance with a lender when it was $50.

The indictment also charges Corradini and Hackenberg with:

Transferring or causing to be transferred $135,000 fraudulently obtained funds into the CGM Realty account with the lender and between March 20 and May 7, 2020, using $101,000 to buy bitcoins from Athena.

Making false representations about CGM employment and payroll in April 2020 when applying for a $305,000 PPP loan and the following month in an addendum.

Obtaining last May a PPP loan of $296,380 that was deposited in the CGM account with the lender.

Transferring between last May 8 and 14 funds to Athena to purchase $250,000 in bitcoins.

Corradini and Hackenberg are charged with conspiring to commit bank fraud and money laundering, making a false loan application, unlawful monetary transactions and making false statements.

He is accused of falsely stating he did not have access to CGM Realty’s bank account and she is accused of claiming she had no knowledge of the shell business.

The government is seeking upon conviction forfeiture $431,591 in currency and $302 currently in the possession of the Internal Revenue Service.

ALSO READ: Mother of man accused in beating death of 3-year-old found guilty of lying to investigators

ALSO READ: Ex-securities broker admits misappropriating $5.7 million from a Pa. firm’s pension plan