What many crypto enthusiasts had predicted for a long time has become a reality, and Bitcoin managed to break above the 2017 high, making its way up towards $40,000. Supported by the growing momentum, other altcoins have followed through, unleashing a new wave of trading opportunities.

As compared to the last cryptocurrency cycle, in 2021 we have a growing derivatives market facilitating access to regulated instruments tracking the performance of some of the largest tokens in the world. Super-Five is one of the providers currently relying on a solid trading offer, focusing on the crypto market and a growing audience of international retail traders.

General Information

Super-Five is a versatile cryptocurrency trading platform built with the purpose of enabling access to crypto trading products for a growing customer base. As the demand is growing for such services, super-five.com takes care of the supply and makes sure that those wanting to focus their attention on crypto will get what they deserve.

A crypto-tailored trading offer is what many aspiring traders are looking after since large providers in the market had failed to ensure optimal trading conditions. If in most cases, at best, traders will get access to instruments based on BTC, ETH, LTC, and XRP, Super-Five is now showing that it can take things to a much higher level.

On top of that, experiencing the cryptocurrency market should be done in a personalized environment according to the super-five.com vision, and thus a proprietary platform was developed.

A trading ecosystem consists of various features and tools, including customer support, various funding methods, educational resources, and other resources that can be integrated into the platform. Read our full Super Five Review to find out if this brand manages to provide all of these benefits and more.

Trading Platform

Before it all started, Super-Five’s main goal was to create an environment where traders can get involved in the crypto market without any security concerns and equipped with tools that offer support when looking after new trading opportunities.

That’s how Web Trader came to life, and now all of Super-Five’s customers get to trade using it. This platform enables you to trade exclusively online, with no need to download and install any local complicated software. Using your login credentials, you can gain access to your account directly at super-five.com.

Crypto trading doesn’t have to be a complicated activity, and with the intuitive interface of this platform, anyone can quickly learn how to open trades and use charts to find optimal entry locations. Super-Five wants to be a place of opportunities and not one where customers face numerous roadblocks.

Mobile Trading

Due to uncertainty and volatility, the ability to trade anytime and anywhere needs to be granted. Super-Five made it easy for traders to get access to the markets from a mobile device with a mobile web friendly trading platform. Numerous occasions arise when customers need to manage an account while also handling other personal dealings.

The Super-Five mobile compatibility makes traders more comfortable since they can monitor open trades or see how prices are moving, even while away from the usual trading desk.

Cryptocurrency Trading

At Super-Five you can trade a variety of crypto assets, having the ability to gain long or short exposure on high-profile cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin, Ether, Litecoin, Ripple, Bitcoin Cash, Polkadot, Chainlink, Bitcoin SV, Monero, Stellar, Tether, or Binance Coin.

With a 24/7 trading schedule, you are able to trade even during weekends, an important feature given cryptocurrencies have a solid track record of being active even on Saturday or Sunday. Customer support is provided 24/6 via live chat or email, to ensure that each time a customer needs help, a representative will be available.

Trading costs are flexible for each instrument covered. There are no trading commissions attached or other trading-related fees. Funding an account is convenient, via credit/debit card or wire transfer for deposits in USD, EUR, or GBP.

Summary

When it comes to cryptocurrency trading services, Super-Five has managed to deliver some of the best trading options. It excels with regards to asset coverage and providing a customized trading experience via a proprietary platform. This makes the brand best-suited only for those that want a trading account for crypto trading, ignoring any other asset class.

All in all, super-five.com is where you can get more engaged in the crypto market, taking advantage of many tokens that have high growth prospects. The brand proves to be a trusted one, constantly focused on maintaining a customer-oriented approach.