General Information

Markets Legion is a cryptocurrency trading platform established in 2020, specializing in providing cutting-edge trading technologies and access to over 100 different crypto instruments. The main goal of the brand is to allow traders around the world to connect with a personalized platform and trade crypto, as volatility continues to be elevated.

There are multiple reasons why many traders have already joined Markets Legion, one of the most important being Social Trading. This feature provides traders with the ability to mimic recent trades and traders or alternatively follow them. They can explore recent popular transactions to learn from experts, all on the platform.

Trading cryptocurrencies is safe, costs are transparent, flexibility is granted, and expert guidance is provided. Markets Legion wants to be a winning crypto trading platform and because of that, has created a very competitive offer, one that attracts a lot of cryptocurrency enthusiasts.

Traders from various countries are expected to join, except for US citizens and residents, given Markets Legion does not provide services there (according to regulation). Are you curious to see why this is a provider worth considering? Our Markets Legion review is here for all those wanting to learn more about the brand.

Trading Platforms

In order to provide a personalized trading experience, Markets Legion relies on the Sirix platform, a solution tailored to the challenges and complexities of the cryptocurrency market. Sirix is a compatible solution for multiple devices and platforms, and the brand currently offers access to 4 different versions: for desktop, Android and iOS, as well as a web-based alternative.

Alongside the usual trading tools that are expected on any platform, in this case the main benefit is the integrated Social Trading feature. Each customer can join the Social program and gain access to trading ideas posted by multiple experts. They can either copy trades with only a few clicks or see how other professionals are trading various instruments and learn from them.

The whole user interface is very intuitive and getting started is a no-brainer, even for someone with no background in trading or crypto. You can customize the platform and choose between 18 different languages and two different themes. In case you want to make a deposit from the platform, you just need to click one button.

One-click trading execution, price alerts, and the ability to create a ‘favorites’ lists are other features worth mentioning. All in all, the web-based and desktop versions of Sirix are very promising solutions for crypto trading.

Markets Legion Trading Apps

Regarding trading apps, marketslegion.com is aware that the number of traders managing their accounts from mobile is constantly on the rise, which is why the brand grants access to the Android and iOS versions of Sirix. Downloadable from the respective app stores, these solutions are ideal when trading on the go, managing trades, or looking for new trading opportunities. Trading crypto via an app should be user-friendly, smooth, and fast, and these qualities are met by the Markets Legion apps.

Cryptocurrency Trading

Trading with Markets Legion means access to more than 100 cryptocurrencies at top-level security. There is a secure ecosystem relying on industry-leading mechanisms operating through offline signatures to ensure the safety of each transaction.

Since the brand is constantly aiming at providing customers with the best trading conditions, its current crypto coverage includes enough crypto instruments to provide diversified exposure to the markets. If you don’t want to trade just on the popular coins (Bitcoin, Ether, Litecoin, and XRP) Markets Legion’s selection also includes EOS, Ethereum Classic, Filecoin, Gnosis, Lisk, Next, OMG, Cardano, and tens of other Altcoins.

You can trade the value of these tokens denominated in fiat currencies like USD and EUR, or against liquid cryptos like BTC, ETH, USDT, or XMR. The goal is to enable customers to find strong vs. weak cryptocurrencies, so they can take advantage of established market trends.

With the help of several guides and live agents, Markets Legion assists both beginner and advanced customers, facilitating cryptocurrency trading to everyone. Its team of experts provides assistance 24/7 via email and live chat.

Summary

Markets Legion brings a very generous crypto offer to the table, at a time when the market is very active, and Altcoins are moving in tandem with Bitcoin. The combination of advanced trading software, a solid asset list, professional customer support, and educational resources, is the best way to get more people involved, according to marketslegion.com’s vision. This is one of the most diversified trading offers we’ve reviewed thus far, which is why Markets Legion is included in our trusted brands list.