Blockchain and Bitcoin development talent is in high demand. This means good salaries, career security, and interesting, engaging work as one of the early pioneers of the world’s biggest and fastest growing tech trend. Now, thanks to Bitcoin Association, you can scour the market for job opportunities in Bitcoin from world leading companies, all in one place.

The Bitcoin Association jobs board allows employers in blockchain and bitcoin to post listings for career opportunities, and has fast become the place to go for learning of new vacancies in Bitcoin development.

Bitcoin Association Founding President Jimmy Nguyen said the jobs board provides an essential service for employers and employees around the sector: “Everyone out there looking for career opportunities in Bitcoin SV can find them on the Bitcoin Association jobs board. The jobs board provides the opportunity for all companies out there to upload the job openings they have.”

A number of blockchain and Bitcoin development careers from multiple different employers are already listed on the jobs board, detailing positions ranging from flexible, work anywhere roles through to work in the U.S., U.K., Canada, Germany, Australia, Lithuania, and the Philippines.

Bitcoin Association itself has listed a number of roles, including for a curriculum content specialist, and a technical curriculum specialist.

Have you visited the recently launched BSV Job Board? If so, then you already know that… Bitcoin Association is hiring!https://t.co/ZcEpZyY6uAhttps://t.co/AieceXiPIO Visit https://t.co/mA27I1F26I and start your career in #bitcoin today! pic.twitter.com/PevlOwOMWY — Bitcoin Association (@BitcoinAssn) April 7, 2021

The curriculum content specialist is a remote role, looking for a candidate with the skills and knowledge to “create training plans, including curriculum content and assessments.” The job involves producing course content and other materials, as well as leading and delivering training sessions on Bitcoin SV. The candidate will also be expected to monitor and report on the effectiveness of their training programs, overseeing the implementation of their training at Bitcoin Association.

The technical curriculum specialist which is available as a remote role, or out of offices in London and/or Ljubljana, Slovenia, will be tasked with developing the onboarding process for companies and organizations new to Bitcoin SV. Requiring a more technical background, the successful applicant will work with Bitcoin Association and nChain in delivering technical documentation for Bitcoin SV users.

A number of senior roles are currently being advertised at digital asset marketplace Fabriik. These include chief revenue officer, vice president sales, chief financial officers and director of banking and payments, respectively. The roles are being advertised at a time of fast growth for the company, which operates out of the U.S. and Canada.

BANXA has a number of roles open at the moment, available across Australia, Philippines and Lithuania. These include business analyst, fraud and payment specialist, compliance analyst and product manager, at the fiat-to-crypto gateway company.

TonicPow is looking to find contractors who can work with their team, available as remote roles from anywhere in the world. Seeking a ReactJS/Gatsby contractor and a Flutter contractor respectively, the part-time roles will support TonicPow in building an advertising model that is compatible with the Bitcoin future.

Other vacancies include roles with TAAL Distributed Information Technologies Inc. (CSE:TAAL | FWB:9SQ1 | OTC: TAALF) , HandCash, Elas Digital, Vaionex Corporation and nChain, across a wide range of different disciplines and career specialisms. For anyone already in or around the blockchain space, or considering a change of career in that direction, these opportunities are heavily incentivized to encourage the world’s brightest and best into the industry.

All of the jobs listed on the jobs board provide opportunities within this fast-growing, dynamic sector. As Bitcoin and blockchain development becomes ever-more central to the global economy over the coming decades, these specialized, highly rewarding roles are likely to become even more in-demand.

Check out the jobs board today at Bitcoin Association, and find your new career in blockchain.

New to Bitcoin? Check out CoinGeek’s Bitcoin for Beginners section, the ultimate resource guide to learn more about Bitcoin—as originally envisioned by Satoshi Nakamoto—and blockchain.