PLANO, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Mentor Capital, Inc. (OTCQB: MNTR) announced that it will be participating in the Coinbase IPO today on behalf of Mentor shareholders, and is adding a cryptocurrency and Bitcoin focus for any ongoing excess cash of Mentor. Mentor Capital, Inc. CEO, Chet Billingsley notes, “As Covid-19 drops off, we are rotating out of our efforts in the Covid business segment. Mentor has also exited our small initial portfolio in public vaccine companies and will apply those funds into the Coinbase IPO today.”

Mr. Billingsley adds, “The Coinbase IPO is a significant milestone in the acceptance of Bitcoin and other crypto currencies in the financial world and business community. Some of our board have considerable knowledge in this sector and we did not want to miss this opportunity for our shareholders. Our approach of looking to add direct support to private startup crypto companies and helping them reach and have access to the public markets may reduce the volatility of this still high risk area.”

“Yesterday, the financial news mentioned that only 32 of 40,000 public companies have crypto currencies on their balance sheets. We are happy to increase that number,” he concludes.

About Mentor Capital: The Company seeks to come alongside and assist private companies and their founders in meeting their liquidity and financial objectives, to add protection for investors, and to help incubate private companies. Additional important information for investors is presented at:

www.MentorCapital.com

This press release is neither an offer to sell nor a solicitation of offers to purchase securities.

Forward-Looking Statements: This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws, including statements concerning financial projections, financing activities, corporate combinations, product development activities and sales and licensing activities. Such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future results or performance, are sometimes identified by words of condition such as “should,” “could,” “expects,” “may,” “intends,” “seeks,” “looks,” “moves,” or “plans” and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, known and unknown, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those intended or anticipated. Such risks include, without limitation: nonperformance of investments, partner and portfolio difficulties, potential delays in marketing and sales, problems securing the necessary financing to continue operations, the potential of competitive products, services, and technologies, difficulties experienced in product development, in recruiting knowledgeable personnel, in protecting intellectual property, and the effects of negative worldwide economic events, such as the recent coronavirus outbreak. Further information concerning these, and other risks is included in the Company’s SEC filings, which, along with additional very important information about the Company, can be found here:

https://ir.mentorcapital.com/all-sec-filings

The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise such forward-looking statements to reflect new information, events, or circumstances occurring after this press release date.