Last night on Real Time with Bill Maher, cryptocurrency was at the center of Maher‘s “New Rule” frustrations this week. According to The Harris Poll, nearly 1 in 10 Americans have used stimulus checks to invest in crypto and Tesla, Microsoft, Etsy, PayPal, Starbucks, Whole Foods & Home Depot all accept the currency as actual financial tender.

“Nothing with ‘crypto’ in the title ever turned out good,” says the HBO host. “There is a mania rising in the nation these days.” He ridiculed cryptocurrencies as an open Ponzi scheme made up of “Monopoly money.” He also added that it’s inherently pointless, arbitrary and impossible to understand, let alone its major impact on the planet’s energy.

“I fully understand that our financial system isn’t perfect, but at least it’s real. Apple stock is worth money because Apple makes thousand dollar phones that everyone buys and drops in the toilet.”

Capitalism does let you “make money in the existing field of money,” he added. “But we knew money had to originate from and be generated by something real, somewhere. To which cryptocurrency says, ‘No, it doesn’t.’”

“Nothing is ever actually being accomplished and no actual product made or service rendered. It’s like Tinker Bell’s light. Its power source is based solely on enough children believing in it,” he said. “Our problem is not economic but psychological. People who have been raised in a virtual world are starting to believe they can really live in it.”

There are currently many different types of cryptocurrencies on the digital market. “There’s also one called Dogecoin that someone started as a joke but as far as I can tell it’s exactly the same as all the other cryptocurrencies because the whole thing is a joke,” said Maher. “But Dogecoin recently rallied to be worth more than the market cap of Ford and Kraft Foods and it has no product and no workers, it’s just Easter bunny cartoon cash.”

Bitcoins are created through a process called “mining” which needs massive supercomputing power and he said climate enthusiasts such as Tesla CEO Elon Musk who “pretend to care about the climate” should know better than to support the trade.

Bitcoin uses more electricity per transaction than any other method and Maher says “cars are bad for the environment but at least they take you somewhere.”

Maher concluded that younger generations such as millennials who see themselves as “big environmentalists” but invest in Bitcoin have cognitive dissonance. You are just “money-hungry opportunists and you’re not allowed to pretend you care about the environment,” he proclaimed.

You can watch the full clip above and catch new episodes of Real Time with Bill Maher on Fridays at 10 p.m. EST.

Michael is a music and television junkie keen on most things that are not a complete and total bore. You can follow him on Twitter — @Tweetskoor

Stream Real Time with Bill Maher on HBO Max