Schoenbeck Calls Cryptocurrency “Fake Money”; Bitcoin Dives

Senate President Pro-Tempore Lee Schoenbeck knows fakes when he sees ’em. He recognized in 2014 that Annette Bosworth was a fraud and a fake Republican. Last year He identified “crazy” fake conservatives in his own party and funded primary campaigns to boot them out of the Legislature. And like many of his fellow Republicans, he’s a master at faking out the voters to undermine direct democracy.

So when Senator Schoenbeck declares cryptocurrency to be “fake money” and cheers the South Dakota investment Council’s decision not to add cryptocurrency to our portfolio, the Kampeska Krusher’s condemnation should wholly explain why Bitcoin shed 10% of its value this morning, right?

Nah—it’s more likely Bitcoiners are showing their true colors by reacting negatively to the government’s ability to stop criminals from using cryptocurrency from holding the country hostage:

Bitcoin slumped to a two-week low, with analysts pointing to a technical breakdown as well as the recovery of Colonial Pipeline Co.’s ransom as evidence that crypto isn’t beyond government control. The fact that investigators “could trace the untraceable and seize it might be undermining the libertarian, free-of-government-control case,” said Jeffrey Halley, a senior market analyst at Oanda. The implications of that may have provoked the selling, he said. The U.S. recovered almost all the Bitcoin ransom paid to the perpetrators of the cyber attack on Colonial last month in a sign that law enforcement is capable of pursuing online criminals even when they operate outside the nation’s borders. The FBI was able to find the Bitcoin by uncovering the digital addresses the hackers used to transfer the funds, according to an eight-page seizure warrant released by the Justice Department on Monday [Vildana Hajric, “Bitcoin Tumbles as Analysts Point at Looming Technical Breakdown,” Bloomberg via Yahoo, 2021.06.08].

When an asset loses value because the rule of law wins, we do well to share Senator Schoenbeck’s skepticism. Cryptocurrency isn’t just fake money; it facilitates criminal activity. Today’s decline in value demonstrates that many of its backers think that’s a feature, not a bug. Cryptocurrency thus represents an attitude and an industry that I’m happy to join Senator Schoenbeck in avoiding.