Bearish Outlook as Bitcoin’s Seven-Day Average Sinks 25%, ADA Shines During the Storm

Digital currency markets have been bearish in recent days as prices have continued to sink lower. The entire market capitalization of all the crypto assets in existence is down over 8% on Sunday at $1.25 trillion. Bitcoin has plummeted from its all-time high (ATH) of $58,350 last Sunday to today’s low of $43,189 per unit.

Bitcoin (BTC) prices have dropped -25.98% since last Sunday and today the crypto asset has touched a new low. At 10:48 in the morning, New York time, BTC prices touched a low of $43,189 per coin. BTC is down over 7% today but is still up 28% during the last 30 days and 122% for the last three months.

BTC dominance or the market valuation in comparison to the rest of the crypto economy’s valuations is around 61.23% today.

The second-largest crypto asset by market valuation is ethereum (ETH) which is swapping for $1,318 per coin on Sunday. ETH prices have dipped over 10% today and lost 31% during the last week.

Cardano (ADA) currently commands the third-largest market cap, and each ADA is exchanging hands for $1.20 per unit. ADA has been a coin that has notably outperformed other crypto assets during the last two days while most markets have been down. ADA is down 12% today but seven-day stats show cardano is up over 10%.

Cardano (ADA) is expected to upgrade on March 1, 2021, which introduces native token functionality to the Cardano network.

Meanwhile, tether (USDT) now holds the fourth position and behind it is binance coin (BNB) trading for $197 per coin. The Binance-created token is down 11% on Sunday and 31% for the last week. Behind BNB is polkadot (DOT) trading for a touch over $30 per DOT.

XRP has been pushed down to the seventh position and is down 10% today. Each XRP is trading for $0.39 per unit. Litecoin (LTC) is swapping for $155 a coin and is down a touch over 9% this weekend.

The stablecoin USDC that’s managed by the crypto firm Circle has made it into the top ten crypto market cap positions. Currently, USDC is the eighth largest market valuation with $8.97 billion worth in circulation.

Lastly, stellar (XLM) holds the tenth top position amongst the 8,000+ crypto tokens in existence. A single XLM is currently trading for $0.39 per unit and interestingly, is roughly the same value as XRP, as the Stellar network blockchain was designed in a similar fashion.

Want to check out all the crypto asset prices and market movements in real-time? Check out markets.Bitcoin.com today!

What do you think about all the market action on Sunday, February 28? Let us know what you think about this subject in the comments section below.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not a direct offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or a recommendation or endorsement of any products, services, or companies. Bitcoin.com does not provide investment, tax, legal, or accounting advice. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.