Just when you thought you’d seen a movie on everything, along comes Bitcoin! And it’s bound to be more gripping than anything you’ve seen so far, with the soon-to-be-released Bitcoin Seduction, Ultimate Financial Fantasy’s(IMDb) film. The project comes from the stables of BS Production & Crypto Film Fund.

According to the description, ‘Bitcoin Seduction is a docudrama that through personal interviews, scripted dramatization, and animation tells the story of how a computer-generated intangible coin, conceived by a mysterious creator, captivated the world and laid the foundation for what many have now come to see as the genesis of a future egalitarian global financial system’.

Bitcoin, the world’s largest Cryptocurrency, has quickly become a seductress of many kinds, luring in those who dream of big returns. It has become somewhat of a trend, with an ever-increasing presence amongst popular financial investment options.

FILE PHOTO: A representation of virtual currency Bitcoin is seen in front of a stock graph in this illustration taken November 19, 2020. REUTERS/Dado Ruvic/Illustration/File Photo

This first of a kind movie takes the audience on a marvellous trip revealing previously unknown facts about Bitcoin (BTC) and the digital currency space. It may even reveal the character behind the pseudonym Satoshi Nakamoto (Watch the trailer).

It will feature legendary tales of fortunes lost and gained, the development of this world-changing innovation, and the ensuing impact on civilization as new blocks get added to the societal chain. The project also takes a broader and more thorough peek at the world of digital currency and blockchain technology, with experts weighing in on topics adjunct cryptocurrency.

To those who can’t get enough of Cryptocurrency, Bitcoin Seduction will surely be a huge hit. It is basically a docudrama that traverses the history and performances of a computer-generated intangible coin.

By combining investigative journalism, exciting interviews and numerous Bitcoin investment stories (not all good ones), it will present a story of enticement to cryptocurrency disciplines and those on the other side of the fence, the disbelievers.

Elon Musk is perhaps the most famous Cryptocurrency Disciple

The film aims to inform, engage and entertain audiences, with facts and figures presented like a real Hollywood flick. Make sure to bring the popcorn (and maybe Ouzo)!

For more information about this film, click here.

Watch the trailer here.