Student Coin (STC) Token Is Now Listed on Bitcoin.com Exchange

press release

PRESS RELEASE. Bitcoin.com Exchange is thrilled to announce the listing of STC, being available to trade on the 13th May 2021 at 10:00AM UTC. STC was created by the Student Coin team, as the reference currency for all tokens created on its terminal. STC will start trading with USDT, BTC and ETH pairs.

What is Student Coin?

The aim of the project is to put the tokens and blockchain into the mainstream. Student Coin is the first platform that allows to perform the wide-scale tokenization for people, organizations, corporations, startups and decentralized finances (DeFi). Wide-scale tokenization is a process that needs an easy-to-use and universal ecosystem that is constructed by the Student Coin. With the STC ecosystem, everyone will be able to easily create any kind of token and develop it in the long run. Student Coin will allow for tokenizing people, firms and organizations, as well as, manage token utilities, perform crowdfunding and easily list new projects.

University is an environment for innovation, new technology research, and the source of great ideas. Moreover, universities around the world are now more connected than ever before and have a lot of external value transfers. Finally, the global educational market is one of the fastest-growing sectors, creating a great environment to build disruptive blockchain-based solutions such as the Student Coin. These three factors made universities a perfect place to create the first wide-scale tokenization platform, similar to how the Internet and social media began.

Student Coin is run by students, faculties, and entrepreneurs from over 20 universities, including the Kozminski University, New York University, and Harvard University. The global educational market is one of the fastest-growing sectors, creating a great environment to build the first wide-scale tokenization platform, similar to how the Internet and social media began.

What is the STC token?

The blockchain-based Student Coin ecosystem has its own currency – STC Token. The utility and the usage of the STC Token are corresponding to the amenities of blockchain technology and tokenization. STC works as a reference currency for the equity flow in the whole ecosystem, powering the STC Terminal usage, STC Exchange trading and STC App applications.

The key role of the STC Token is being the reference currency for all of the tokens ever created at STC Terminal, the personal, DeFi and startup tokens will be traded at STC Exchange only to STC, making it the measure of the worth. It means that by holding STC Token, investors are also holding the part of the whole ecosystem and a part of all the tokens created with Student Coin- giving it a great value growth mechanism.

The second main utility of the STC is the staking option that will create the passive income from STC Exchange fees, so by staking STC, investors will receive part of the income generated from STC Exchange trading and Crowdfunding.

The last major STC utility is the ecosystem governing, by holding STC, investors can vote in the project development and grant the most interesting projects built in the STC ecosystem.

Strong Endorsement

Danish Chaudhry, CEO of Bitcoin.com Exchange, shared his views on Student Coin, and their respective token: “I’ve always strongly believed an educational approach is the only way to reach mass adoption, the team at Student Coin have finally found a way to target not only the crypto community, but also students. Allowing the minds of the future to learn more on the technology, cryptocurrency markets, exchanges, and DeFi. I believe this gives their platform the fundamentals to gain market share and possibly build further adoption.”

Chaudhry continues on by saying; “We’re very excited to see how Student Coin will continue to empower their vision for the future of wide-scale tokenization, and gain further outreach with our outstanding community at the exchange.”



Wojciech Podobas, CEO and Founder of Student Coin always expressed his enthusiasm, stating: “We are extremely grateful to our community for their great support in executing our development plan. We are confident that listing on Bitcoin.com Exchange and joining this ecosystem will open up even more opportunities and enable us to operate on a much larger scale.”

About Bitcoin.com Exchange

The mission of Bitcoin.com Exchange is to empower people from all over the world to trade cryptocurrencies with ease and confidence, from first-time traders to advanced trading professionals. With high liquidity, 24/7 multilingual support and dozens of trading pairs, complemented with a high level of security, we offer an attractive platform for trading any cryptocurrency. Within one year since launch, on average, our exchange has been visited by more than 500K active traders per month, and this number continues to grow as you read this sentence.

About Student Coin

Student Coin is an ecosystem built with blockchain technology with the aim of providing users with an alternative to bank loans, among others. The platform was designed to enable individuals and companies to build their own STC-based tokens and sell them through crowdfunding. So you have something to give from the outset. All of the new tokens will be valued based on the STC.

This is a press release. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the promoted company or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in the press release.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons