Don't miss a thing by getting the day's biggest stories sent direct to your inbox Invalid Email Something went wrong, please try again later. Click here Thank you for subscribing We have more newsletters Show me See our privacy notice

Martin Lewis was left furious on This Morning after a 'devastating' phone-in heard a women lost £8,000 to what she thought was a Bitcoin scheme.

The woman told hosts Holly Willoughby and Phillip Schofield, who were joined by money expert Martin for the phone-in, that she lost the staggering amount to a cryptocurrency scam.

The caller, known as Julie, said she saw an advert online prompting Martin to interrupt straight away stating: "Let me stop you there.

"A warning to anybody out there, you do not buy Bitcoin from adverts online."

He also went on to say that any Bitcoin ads that featured a photo of himself or another celebrity, such as Dragons' Den star Deborah Meaden, was a scam.

He told Julie she was "very brave" for calling as she explained: "Every time I was saying 'how do I go about getting money out', they said 'well, you can earn more money on this..."

She also said she did seek help from her bank and they warned her "every time I took a transaction out," but she chose to ignore it.

(Image: ITV)

Martin said: "It is very dangerous. It is psychological. These people are brilliant, if only these ... not the b word, if only these horrible people could use their skills for something productive.

"Almost every advert for Bitcoin or cryptocurrency on these types of sites are scammers trying to get your money."

He advised Julie to speak to the Citizens Advice's scams team but said it was likely she had lost the money she had spent already.

After the segment, Martin went to Twitter to speak of the call.

"That was devastating This Morning phone in. A warning for you all," he wrote.

"A poor woman having a tough time, thought she was investing in Bitcoin, but they were scammers.

"Even her card firm warned her, but she was in too deep.

"I stopped myself saying b******s on air, but they are b******s."