Mila Kunis appeared on Friday's episode of "The Late Show with Stephen Colbert."

Kunis, 37, admitted that she gave Ashton Kutcher bad financial advice about Uber and Bitcoin.

Kutcher, 43, is a venture capitalist who's made lucrative investments for more than a decade.

Visit Insider's homepage for more stories.

Mila Kunis revealed that she gave her husband Aston Kutcher some bad financial advice.

During a recent appearance on "The Late Show with Stephen Colbert," the 37-year-old actress spoke about Kutcher being a venture capitalist who's built a successful fund over the last decade.

"The best part about him is he's really smart about including me in everything and making sure that I am aware of everything that's happening," Kunis told Colbert. "He's also really smart at knowing that sometimes, you shouldn't listen to your wife."

Kunis explained that while she offers solid advice when investing in consumer goods, she's "not the right person to ask" when it comes to venture capital opportunities.

"Early into our dating, two things came up. He was like, 'Hey, there's this company. It's kind of like a rideshare ... it's kind of like a cab company, but anybody can drive the cab," Kunis said. "I was like, 'That's the worst idea ever."

Kunis added that Kutcher tried to persuade with a demonstration, but she was still skeptical.

Kunis said: "He was like, 'Let me get you this thing. It's called Uber. Let me just order it for you. You can test this out.' And I was like, 'You're going to put me in a car with a stranger? What is wrong with you?'"

She also said that she was hesitant when Kutcher first introduced her to Bitcoin.

"Second time, it was, he sat me down and was like, 'Hey, babe, I got to explain this thing to you. Tell me if I'm crazy.' And I was like, 'Cool. What is it, babe?'" said Kunis. "He's like, 'There's this thing, it's like mining for money. It's called cryptocurrency, and there's this company'— this is eight-plus years ago — he's like, 'It's called Bitcoin."

The former "That 70s Show" star was concerned about investing in cryptocurrency because the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp didn't insure it.

"And I was like, 'Well, I think this is a horrible idea," Kunis continued. "And he went, 'Cool, we're investing in it.' So he didn't listen to me. I mean, this happens all the time."

Kutcher was an early investor in Uber, Airbnb, and Spotify. He's made millions of dollars from his venture capitalist fund, A-Grade Investments, which grew from $30 million to $250 million in six years.