The rising price of cryptocurrencies has increased the demand for electricity to produce cryptocurrencies, the professor writes. John Quiggin..

Two recent developments in financial markets have great direct opposition to the future of the global climate. On the other hand, every financial institution sale From carbon-based fuel. On the other hand, we are increasingly accepting one of the most nonsensical and destructive trends these days: cryptocurrencies: Bitcoin..

First of all, good news. Until very recently, withdrawals from coal mines and coal-fired power plants were symbolically morally made by socially oriented investors who were willing to narrow their investment options rather than benefit from environmental destruction. It looked like a gesture.After all, socially oriented investors Well doneOn the other hand, hardliners who kept miners and oil companies in their portfolios lost a lot.

Dive into the present, divestment is standard, but the process is usually done in a series of baby steps. At this point, almost all financial institutions in the developed market economy have restricted their exposure to coal and have shown strategies to end their connection with the steam coal used to generate electricity. ( Coal for metallurgyIs used in steelmaking and, unlike solar and wind power, is in the early stages of development).

Think for yourself: Cryptocurrency

You’ve heard about Bitcoin and Ethereum, but what about Dogecoin and Halicion? None are fake, at least one is a scam. As discovered by IA critical thinker John Turnbull, the world of cryptocurrencies is mysterious and prone to exaggeration and deception.

As recent research shows, the key issue for financial institutions is “The ratio of sadness to income‘. Coal lending or investment is guaranteed to attract hostile attention not only from environmental activists but also from regulators. The future assessment of regulators is necessarily based on the premise that the global commitment to decarbonization of the economy will be adhered to.

On the other side of this equation, the risk of investing in coal becoming a “stranded asset” is constantly increasing. Most global companies (with notable exceptions Glencore) Sold coal assets and suffered considerable losses in the process.

As a result, mines are now mostly owned by marginal managers who are willing to make sufficient short-term profits. Such companies prove that they are not a major credit risk and that financial institutions are reluctant to deal with them.

The result was recently revealed Parliamentary inquiry Called by the instigation of coal pro-members George KristensenCoal miners such as White Haven and New Hope complained that it was nearly impossible to secure funding from Australian banks. Asian banks were willing to lend to coal, but were postponed due to lack of their own support. Moreover, as Japanese and South Korean lenders participate in the withdrawal movement, China is increasingly becoming the only source of financial support for coal.

The purpose of the study was to pressure Australian financial institutions to support coal, but it seems to have been counterproductive. Even during the hearing Macquarie Bank Announced a complete withdrawal from coal by 2024. Australian Prudential Regulation Authority He explained his exposure to climate risk and warned financial institutions that he needed to limit his holdings accordingly.

Its importance in blockchain and current cyber warfare

Digital infrastructure platforms could become the next tool in cyberwarfare as confidence declines and tensions between global powers increase.

The progress of withdrawal from coal is in contrast to the enthusiastic acceptance of Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies. Once used to replace existing currencies as a medium of exchange, cryptocurrencies are now used only as speculative assets and only as a means of conducting illegal transactions such as: Ransomware payment.

“Proof of work“The process by which Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies are generated”MinerUsing specially designed computers and large amounts of power, we are competing to solve increasingly sophisticated but meaningless mathematical problems.

A few years ago, the power used in Bitcoin mining was calculated. Comparable Meet the aggregate demand of a small country like New Zealand. However, as prices have risen, so has the demand for electricity resources, until the abandoned coal-fired power plants are reopened. Even if Bitcoin is mined using renewable electricity, that electricity must be diverted from other uses and depend on coal-fired or gas-fired electricity.

Amid growing concerns about the destruction of the environment by virtual currencies,Green“How to produce them. This kind of past effort has failed but will probably succeed. But there is no time to wait. Financial institutions need to withdraw from cryptocurrencies and financial regulation Authorities need to shut them down. Whenever an environment-safe version emerges, it can be considered again.

John Quiggin He is a professor of economics at the University of Queensland. His new book, The Economic Consequences of the Pandemic, will be published by the Yale University Press in late 2021.

Related article