If a client or prospect brings up crypto, it is simply in the open-ended question of 'What do you think about Bitcoin/crypto?' I tell them that I consider it a volatile and speculative place to put money.



My investing philosophy is built around investments that we can reasonably predict and expect a return from. When you buy a stock, you get the future cash flow that the company generates. When you buy a bond, you receive interest payments. When you buy crypto, your sole source of a return is betting that someone else will be willing to pay more for that digital currency in the future than you did. Maybe they will, but I'm not willing to bet my family's, or my clients', futures on such an unpredictable outcome.



— Matt Elliott, Pulse Financial Planning, Rochester, Minnesota

I have had a few clients ask me about cryptocurrency. The first thing they ask is, “What is it?” and then they want to know if we are investing in it or if they should invest in it. Oftentimes these are people who are very risk averse but no one wants to miss out on the next, hottest thing. I remind them about the volatility of these assets and tell them if they would like to invest some of their money in crypto, it should be money they aren't counting on for retirement or their other goals. They should only invest their “mad” money.



— Monica Dwyer, Harvest Financial Advisors, West Chester, Ohio

Many clients are asking about crypto assets. I explain that crypto assets still appear to be speculative in nature. I am not recommending crypto assets be part of their core long-term investment portfolios. However, they are welcome to create or add to a side account they might have for speculative holdings. Specifically it should be money they can afford to lose. I am also reminding them to account for any crypto-related realized gains whether they self prepare their income taxes or work with a tax professional.



— Michael Palazzolo, Fintentional LLC, Birmingham, Michigan

I have conversations weekly regarding crypto as a handful of my clients are crypto millionaires.



Typically the meetings revolve around a couple topics: balancing net worth between crypto and traditional assets and income tax planning. The tax conversations can be very strategic as typically we only look to sell long-term capital gains, but with the volatility of the asset class, there is opportunity to tax loss harvest as well.



Over the last few months I’ve also had clients pull money out of their Coinbase accounts in order to purchase a home. Really, it is the same conversations I have with traditional clients, just with a more aggressive timeline.



— Blake Hempel, Hempel Wealth Management, Chicago

Plenty of my clients have asked about cryptos and whether or not they should invest. I have explained to my clients that I view crypto as gambling and not investing. ... I ask them about what they haven’t thought about. Do they have an objective trading plan? A sell price? The vast majority of people have no idea how it’s being priced.



Clients ask me why I don't like crypto … Ultimately, I explain to them that even though cryptocurrency might be theoretically possible, this doesn't change the fact that it's a made-up currency/asset that isn't backed by anything.



There is no reason to believe a cryptocurrency value will consistently rise over time. Even Bitcoin is not a safe haven when the market is down. If anything it’s more correlated to high-flying tech names. I tell clients I will invest in Bitcoin on your behalf. It’s not something I believe in. You can do it on your own, against my recommendation.



— Michael Caligiuri, Caligiuri Financial, Columbus, Ohio

We have been asked recently about crypto assets. Ironically, the only question people seem to be asking is “How do I buy it?” Nobody is asking “Should I buy it?” or “What are the risks?”



The reality is there are indeed risks. This asset class is new and volatile. Will it be regulated and if so how? The SEC has yet to approve any crypto ETFs even though they’ve been asked to for years. What we tell clients is to take care of their basics first. Much like using your salary to pay your rent, and buy food and clothes before you go out on the town and splurge, make sure you have assessed your risk tolerance and have invested accordingly in a diversified portfolio.



Beyond that, we wouldn’t recommend any more than 2%-5% total in ‘speculative investments’ which could include crypto, or any other currencies, art, or in some cases real estate. You need to be ok with the possibility that you may lose your entire investment. Also, to this point, most advisors cannot buy crypto for clients.



— Brad Wright, Launch Financial Planning, Andover, Massachusetts

I routinely get calls from clients and prospects mostly about Bitcoin. They ask if they should buy Bitcoin as well as how to buy it. I will recommend no more than 1-3% in crypto and remind them that there have been many times over the past 10 years when it went down 50-90% or more. I tells them it can get cut in half or more on its way to going higher and to expect an extremely volatile ride. Over long periods of time, I think it will do well.



— Marc Schindler, Pivot Point Advisors, Bellaire, Texas





Governments are experimenting with digital currencies; when they enter the market, they will blow away the “private” crypto.



The real value behind all this hoopla is blockchain, the underlying technology … I suggest that investors should invest in companies that are involved in that.



— Chris Chen, Insight Financial Strategists, Newton, Massachusetts One of the key attractive characteristics of “private” crypto is that it is independent of the government making it attractive to money launderers and tax evaders of all stripes. How long will the government countenance that? Just this week the IRS announced their concern about this in their latest tax compliance release Governments are experimenting with digital currencies; when they enter the market, they will blow away the “private” crypto.The real value behind all this hoopla is blockchain, the underlying technology … I suggest that investors should invest in companies that are involved in that.

Clients have definitely asked about crypto a lot lately. I always try to get them to disconnect from the headlines and astronomical numbers they see and try to remember the basics. Health & fitness always has some latest gadget or craze that offers a ‘’shortcut’’ but you need to remember the tried-and-true and much harder method of good old diet and exercise gets the slowest but longest lasting results. The same holds true with finance.



This is not a new era or different from anything that has occurred in the past. It may look different but it’s the same story that has been told countless times. Greed to make money quickly has caused many in the past to overlook potential negatives, try to learn from the mistakes of others and not repeat them.



— Christopher Lyman, Allied Financial Advisors, Newtown, Pennsylvania