SuperBid (SUPERBID) Token Is Now Listed on Bitcoin.com Exchange

press release

PRESS RELEASE. Bitcoin.com Exchange is thrilled to announce the listing of SUPERBID, being available to trade on the 28th May 2021 at 12:00 UTC. The SUPERBID token was created by its respective team to fuel it’s social-auction app enabling its users to connect influencers with their fans in exchange for items, experiences, and NFTs. SUPERBID will start trading with a USDT pair.

What is SuperBid?

The SuperBid auctioning app gives influencers a network to earn significant revenue for their content. On SuperBid, influencers will be able to auction off physical goods, digital items such as NFTs (non-fungible tokens), while also auctioning unique experiences to fans, allowing them to discover, support, and even chat directly with their favorite influencers while their auctions are running. SuperBid is discovering a new way to connect fans to both their favorite influencers, and the blockchain space, enabling bids via cryptocurrency. Effectively utilizing the technical benefits of blockchain systems while allowing users to access crypto more easily.

The SuperBid project combines influencer marketing, online auctions, ecommerce live streaming and cryptocurrency, allowing SuperBid app’s future users to connect to the industry in a more 2021 approach, while also gaining a lot of influencers from platforms like TikTok and Cameo. Although not fully launched as of yet, the platform has garnered a community of over 10,000 future users, influencers with over 15 million followers, and several cryptocurrency partners in the NFT and consulting space. But it doesn’t stop there, SuperBid is working effortlessly to continue to build its portfolio of influencers and increase its leverage in the market, and its developers are also constructing future functionalities which will allow influencers to auction NFTs, and even run a livestream while doing so.

There’s another phase to SuperBid’s plan, a lot of projects nowadays are giving back to the communities via charities and such, but with SuperBid there’s a twist. Since the app will function as an online, social auction room that uses modern currency to make a profit, its developers are ensuring that once auctions are closed on the app, a portion of company earnings will be dedicated to charities.

What is the SUPERBID token?

SUPERBID token is used for auctions on the SuperBid app. SUPERBID token will be used to process transactions and store data as well.

Strong Endorsement

Danish Chaudhry, CEO of Bitcoin.com Exchange, shared his views on SuperBid, and their respective token: “The SuperBid team is onto something that has been touched before in the crypto sector, but not to this extent. Their use of auctioning celebrity and influencer physical goods, experiences and more to their die hard fans using blockchain technology is a great combination when understanding the technical benefits put forward. I believe this gives their platform the fundamentals to gain major hype on launch, and I look forward to seeing how this project and token evolves with the Bitcoin.com Exchange community.”



Patrick Gajda, CEO of SuperBid, stated: “We are very pleased with our listing on Bitcoin.com Exchange. SuperBid is bridging the gap between the world’s population of social media users and cryptocurrency. We truly believe that SuperBid is forging a revolution with a nod to influencers and the value of their content, and are excited about increasing awareness and access to our token through Bitcoin.com Exchange.”

About Bitcoin.com Exchange

The mission of Bitcoin.com Exchange is to empower people from all over the world to trade cryptocurrencies with ease and confidence, from first-time traders to advanced trading professionals. With high liquidity, 24/7 multilingual support and dozens of trading pairs, complemented with a high level of security, it offers an attractive platform for trading any cryptocurrency. Within one year since launch, on average, the exchange has been visited by more than 500K active traders per month, and this number continues to grow as you read this sentence.

About SuperBid

SuperBid is a next generation social-auctioning app which strives to connect influencers with their audiences through engaging auctions of their non-fungible tokens (NFTs), physical items, and experiences. Users have a chance to bid for auctions and chat with their favorite influencers at the same time.

This is a press release. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the promoted company or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in the press release.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons