Whistleblower Edward Snowden Says $6 Trillion in Stimulus Is 'Good for Bitcoin’

The infamous whistleblower and privacy activist Edward Snowden commented on bitcoin on Friday, after the Biden administration said this week it was shooting for 6 trillion dollars in stimulus proposals. Following the $6 trillion in stimulus headlines, Snowden commented on the situation and said it was “good for bitcoin.”

Edward Snowden Jabs Biden’s 6 Trillion-Dollar Covid Relief Proposal, Says It’s ‘Good for Bitcoin’

The 37-year old former computer intelligence consultant for the National Security Agency (NSA) and contractor for the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), Edward Snowden, has once again commented on the leading digital asset bitcoin. Snowden’s statement on Twitter follows the last few days of reports discussing the Biden administration’s $6 trillion stimulus proposals to “build back a better” America.

“Six trillion dollars? This is good for Bitcoin,” the whistleblower Edward Snowden said on Friday. The tweet already has 36,000 likes and has been retweeted more than 6,000 times.

Of course, it’s not the first time Snowden has spoken about bitcoin, as the whistleblower and privacy activist has been very vocal about the subject in recent years. For instance, after the March 12, 2020 market carnage, otherwise known as ‘Black Thursday,’ Snowden said: “This is the first time in a while I’ve felt like buying bitcoin. That drop was too much panic and too little reason.”

Back when Snowden’s book sales were confiscated by the U.S. Department of Justice (DoJ), after the DoJ announced a lawsuit against the whistleblower, Snowden also tweeted: “In conclusion, this is good for bitcoin.” Snowden, however, hasn’t been looked at too kindly by the bitcoin maximalist crowd because he’s criticized the crypto asset on a few occasions. Snowden recently took to Twitter and knocked the Human Rights Foundation’s (HRF) Alex Gladstein’s recent statements. Gladstein wasn’t a fan of Snowden’s recent interview.

“The worst part of cryptocurrency transforming into dragon-level wealth is witnessing good people emotionally devolve into dragons themselves: so intellectually paralyzed by the fear that everyone they see threatens their hoard that they lose sight of the world beyond their cave,” Snowden scathed in response to Gladstein’s Twitter statements.

The whistleblower does criticize bitcoin on occasion, but also explains that he uses it regularly and once called the technology the “first free money” system in the world. He’s discussed privacy coins on various occasions like monero (XMR) and zcash (ZEC). There is no doubt that Snowden is a believer in decentralized technologies and he’s mentioned many times that cryptos are a threat to the nation state’s monopoly over money.

In 2016, Snowden once said that “new technologies raise the possibility of unstoppable tax protests.” Snowden has since deleted that tweet, but still talks positively about bitcoin and the crypto economy regularly to this day.

What do you think about Edward Snowden’s comment about Biden’s $6 trillion stimulus proposals being good for bitcoin? Let us know what you think about this subject in the comments section below.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not a direct offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or a recommendation or endorsement of any products, services, or companies. Bitcoin.com does not provide investment, tax, legal, or accounting advice. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.