Billionaire Microsoft founder Bill Gates criticized bitcoin's environmental impact in an interview.

Speaking to CNBC's Andrew Ross Sorkin, he said it used more electricity than any other method.

Cambridge University analysis suggested bitcoin used more energy than Argentina, the BBC reported.

See more stories on Insider's business page.

Bill Gates is one of the richest people in the world and an outspoken advocate, fighting against climate change.

In a Clubhouse interview with New York Times reporter and CNBC co-anchor Andrew Ross in February, Gates spoke out against bitcoin citing environmental damages caused by the cryptocurrency.

"Bitcoin uses more electricity per transaction than any other method known to mankind," Gates said. "It's not a great climate thing."However, he added that bitcoin's energy use may be acceptable if green energy is used and it is not "crowding out other users."

Gates clarified that he does not see climate change and bitcoin as being "closely related," and labeled himself a "bitcoin skeptic," citing a preference to invest in "products" like malaria and measles vaccines rather than cryptocurrencies.

Cryptocurrencies have become a major culprit for energy consumption, with the world's bitcoin network using as much power as the whole of Ireland in 2018.

Analysis by the University of Cambridge released earlier this year suggested that bitcoin was now consuming more electricity than Argentina, according to the BBC.

Gates is not the only one to speak out against bitcoin's environmental impact, with CIO of Société Générale's Kleinwort Hambros bank, Fahad Kamal, saying bitcoin's energy use was "staggering" and a major worry for investors.

Economist Nouriel Roubini also criticized bitcoin and the growing trend in bitcoin investment, spiked by endorsements from Tesla chief Elon Musk.

"Since the fundamental value of bitcoin is zero and would be negative if a proper carbon tax was applied to its massive polluting energy-hogging production, I predict that the current bubble will eventually end in another bust," Roubini said.

However, others have stood behind bitcoin and the cryptocurrency soared to record highs on February 21, reaching $58,640. "Mad Money" host Jim Cramer previously told Sorkin on CNBC that it was "almost irresponsible" for companies not to own bitcoin.

Meanwhile, Ark Invest founder Cathie Woods said she expected the price of bitcoin to rise between $40,000 and $400,000 and that digital wallets would gut traditional banks.