General Information

GlobalBase is a brand-new cryptocurrency trading platform, designed for traders who want to explore innovative and high-tech software, with a variety of trading tools built into it. The company wants its customers to trade with confidence and for that reason, uses some of the best security mechanisms in the industry.

At the same time, aware of all the vulnerabilities associated with using crypto exchange platforms, it does not require buying or selling the underlying instruments. Traders use derivatives to take advantage of price movements, benefiting from attractive trading costs, fast execution, and accurate pricing.

The brand’s focus on crypto comes hand-in-hand with several important benefits, some of which will be described in our current GlobalBase review. This material is designed for both experienced and inexperienced traders, living across the world and wishing to get involved in crypto securely and with competitive conditions.

Trading Platform

Since it aims to offer an intuitive experience from the very start, GlobalBase relies on web-based proprietary software, specifically crafted to meet the challenges of the cryptocurrency market. On top of the wide crypto coverage, the platform is rich with features and includes a technical and fundamental analysis toolkit.

Trading crypto is the same as with any other traditional asset class and thus traders can apply strategies with proven efficiency in other markets. Using the platform available at globalbase.io, they can spot support/resistance levels, understand the order flow behind price actions, place trades, and manage them, as the market unfolds.

There are no issues with compatibility, given the platform does not have to be installed, but rather simply accessed via any browser. Regardless of the OS, you can use it without any worries. Users who have already registered with GlobalBase are satisfied with the platform, confirming a customized trading experience is best-suited when trading crypto.

GlobalBase Mobile Trading

The platform designed by the brand can be used on a smartphone or tablet, Android or iOS based, without any hurdles, as long as there is a browser available. GlobalBase is aware that without mobile trading capabilities, it is difficult to manage trades and monitor the markets, especially when on the go.

This is a lightweight platform which does not require high specs in terms of hardware, meaning even those without expensive gear are able to trade. This brand wants to bring together a broad audience of established and aspiring traders and has thus developed an infrastructure that can be used globally.

Cryptocurrency Trading Conditions

To make online trading straightforward and enjoyable, GlobalBase is offering competitive crypto asset coverage. Its instruments list includes not only the largest tokens (Bitcoin, Ether, XRP, Litecoin), but also tens of other altcoins that have high market capitalizations and are increasingly popular among both retail and institutional players.

Cardano, Neo, EOS, Polkadot, Tron, Stellar, EOS, Dash, Bitcoin Cash, and Ethereum Classic, are altcoins with encouraging prospects, sometimes posting larger volatility when compared to the leading names. In such conditions, plenty of trading opportunities are expected to arise, and the offer assembled by GlobalBase has been designed accordingly.

With 0% trading commissions, costs are naturally reduced substantially, and by trading on margin, traders can increase their exposure while also keeping risk under control using stop loss or take profit mechanisms.

According to the withdrawal policy available at globalbase.io, each trader needs to comply with AML/KYC rules and submit several identification documents:

Photo ID – government-issued photo ID

Proof of residence – copy/scan of a utility bill issued within the last three months

Proof of payment – necessary only for credit card transactions

Also, the company is very active when it comes to providing educational resources. The GlobalBase blog is a place where traders can find various articles related to important trading topics like how to protect your trading account, as well as trading advice and tips. Most of these materials are ideal for beginners who are still learning their way through the crypto industry.

Summary

Incentivized by the elevated volatility in the cryptocurrency space, GlobalBase has emerged as a very promising crypto trading platform, offering its services to traders who want to take advantage of short-term price movements. The crypto asset coverage is one of the most important benefits, alongside the tailored trading software.

Trading crypto with GlobalBase can be done in optimal conditions, given the company has already integrated numerous trading tools which traders can use to spot opportunities and understand the market’s fluctuations. This is a brand that people can trust due to its high level of transparency.