Rich Dad Poor Dad's Robert Kiyosaki Urges Crypto Investors to Buy the Dip, Says 'Stop Whining and Take Action'

Robert Kiyosaki, the best-selling author of “Rich Dad Poor Dad,” says now that bitcoin is “crashing,” it is a buying opportunity, especially for those who said that they could not afford it before. Alternatively, he said they can “Buy coins that outperform bitcoin for pennies,” reiterating that the Fed, Treasury, and Biden are the problems, not bitcoin or Elon Musk.

Robert Kiyosaki’s Bitcoin Advice

Famous author and investor Robert Kiyosaki has once again pushed for investors to buy bitcoin now that the price of the cryptocurrency has fallen sharply from its record highs. He sees the price “crash” as a buying opportunity.

Rich Dad Poor Dad is a 1997 book co-authored by Kiyosaki and Sharon Lechter. It has been on the New York Times Best Seller List for over six years. Over 32 million copies of the book have been sold in over 51 languages across more than 109 countries.

Kiyosaki tweeted last week:

I hear ‘I can’t afford bitcoin.’ Bitcoin is crashing, good news. Now is your chance. Get Educated. Buy coins that outperform bitcoin for pennies. Stop whining and take action.

This tweet followed another one of Kiyosaki’s pro-bitcoin tweets which was posted on May 14. The Rich Dad Poor Dad author wrote: “Bitcoin crashing. Good news. Getting ready to buy more.” He continued:

Remember the problem is not Elon Musk or bitcoin. The problems are the Fed, Treasury, and Biden. Gold, silver and bitcoin are the solutions.

Kiyosaki did not name any cryptocurrencies other than bitcoin in particular and there are thousands of coins to choose from. Investors need to do their own research thoroughly before investing. For example, people who got in early on dogecoin have reported making a substantial amount of money and recently the Shiba Inu coin has made some people millionaires. A Goldman Sachs executive has reportedly quit his job at the investment bank after making a fortune with dogecoin.

The renowned Rich Dad Poor Dad author further explained that the “Fed wants inflation to pay debt with cheaper $ [money]. Fed will raise interest rates causing stock, bond, real estate & gold crash. Biggest problem: Boomer retirement. Social Security Medicare & America broke. Fed to [print] more fake money. Stick with gold, silver, and bitcoin.”

Kiyosaki has been recommending bitcoin for quite some time as he believes that the dollar is dying. In April, he predicted that the price of BTC will be $1.2 million “in five more years.”

Do you agree with Robert Kiyosaki? Let us know in the comments section below.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not a direct offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or a recommendation or endorsement of any products, services, or companies. Bitcoin.com does not provide investment, tax, legal, or accounting advice. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.