Zionodes is a world-class mining platform that offers a unique marketplace that aggregates data centers, miners, and hardware sellers. The company is one of the first to provide services for Chia farmers and integrate its robust functionalities in these services.

SINGAPORE / ACCESSWIRE / May 31, 2021 / Zionodes announces the integration of Chia farming services and the launch of Chia mining hardware on its noted platform. Zionodes is one of the world's leading marketplace that simplifies the complex mining platform and offers a cost advantage, transparent, machine ownership with assured increased ROI, real-time monitoring tools, and two-layered security.

It is a remote mining platform that addresses the pain points for resellers, farm operators, and miners by creating a single marketplace for everyone. With its headquarters in Singapore and users across Eastern Europe and the Asia Pacific, Zionodes is a fast-growing crypto marketplace.

Chia has become increasingly popular in the crypto circle because of its environmentally friendly approach to farming cryptocurrencies and is considered an efficient "green alternative" to Bitcoin. The cryptocurrency uses a proof of space protocol that utilized the unused space on the hard drive of personal computers for farming. As it does not require any specialized mining hardware, it cuts down the power usage significantly.

Zionodes believes that Chia has a lot of potential and wants to bank down on this opportunity and provide its users the latest addition in the crypto space. In that regard, Zionodes has launched a 10Pib- Chia eco-green power-saving storage mining machine for institutions. located in Montreal, Canada. Along with mining services, we are also providing Chia mining hardware to cater to different needs. We will be providing the standardized power for everyone to participate at a later stage. This venture of Zionodes is backed by NASDAQ: TAOP.US (referred to as "Taoping" listed co.) that strengthens the roots and functionalities of the company.

Story continues

The company is also offering a FULLY AUTONOMOUS MINING T3 Data Center that is built by the company itself. Apart from this, Zionodes offers :

Hardware perpetual ownership

Top five server brands with three years official warranty

Plotting architecture to complete 1PiB within one day

Dedicated IDC level customer support

Top-notch engineers 24/7 supervision

Customizable Hashpower Plans

Zionodes has already marked its presence among the top players because of its expert team with over four years of experience in crypto mining. With this addition, the company will take the next step towards its goal to provide the best services to its users.

For more information on Zionodes please visit https://www.zionodes.com/

CONTACT:

Name - Zionodes

Email - info@zionodes.com

Country - Singapore

City - Singapore

SOURCE: Zionodes





View source version on accesswire.com:

https://www.accesswire.com/649729/Zionodes-the-Worlds-Leading-Marketplace-for-Bitcoin-Mining-to-Offer-Services-for-Chia-Farming



