21Shares is to list three of its digital assets ETPs namely – bitcoin, ether, and short bitcoin – on the regulated market of Euronext Paris on Tuesday, 1 June.

21Shares, a Swiss pioneering issuer of crypto ETPs, is assisting a first in France: the listing of liquid, secure, 100 per cent collateralised financial products backed by the two "stars" of the new crypto-currency asset class, Bitcoin and Ethereum (respectively +39.53 per cent and +265.37 per cent since 1 January 2021). Since it's world first product launch in November 2018 ( crypto basket HODL ETP), 21Shares has continued to build its unique expertise in the cryptoasset industry, and has made available to investors the largest and most diversified range of crypto trackers in the world, consisting of 14 ETPs and providing research and educational materials on www.21shares.com.

As well as Paris, various other European regulated exchanges have welcomed 21Shares' crypto ETPs.

Investors can benefit from exposure to crypto-currencies without being held back either by the complex storage process or by the regulatory constraints that apply to crypto asset trading applications. Instead, they can access an ETP following the daily performance of bitcoin, daily inverse bitcoin or ether. The latter has performed spectacularly well and have been very popular with institutional investors.

This new development salutes France's support for blockchain, in particular the efforts of the regulatory authorities to promote the blockchain, fintech and cryptocurrency industry in France recently discussed by French media and the French government.

Laurent Kssis, Managing Director of 21Shares' ETP business, says: "We are delighted to offer to French investors products that have proven themselves in other European markets where we have listed them in Switzerland, Germany and Austria so far and have gained support due to their institutional grade structures and assets growth. These conventional ETPs will allow investors to diversify their portfolios by adding assets that we believed in before many others, and that we believe are essential in successful portfolio allocation."

Ophelia Snyder, co-founder and president of 21Shares, adds: "1 June is a milestone for 21Shares, for investors and for France, a country that our French-speaking teams know very well and that we value. We welcome Euronext's leadership in promoting access to this new asset class using 21Shares under the best conditions of accessibility, transparency and cost."