US: Fresh sales initiatives drive optimism at Dollar Tree but challenges loom

Citing a variety of promising initiatives - including combination stores, new shopper marketing and delivery partnerships, expansion of price points and a move to add fresh produce and frozen meat to some stores - executives of Dollar Tree Inc. were upbeat while reviewing the discounter’s first-quarter results and future prospects. But rising costs for freight, and a disrupted global supply chain, could be near-term impediments to its financial and operational goals, they said.

Source: winsightgrocerybusiness.com

US: Instacart introduces 30-minute grocery delivery

Instacart is launching 30-minute grocery delivery in the U.S., moving up its fastest delivery time by 15 minutes. The company says the service, called "Priority Delivery", seeks to redefine the "quick run to the store" and brings the grocery express lane online. Instacart says Priority Delivery makes it even easier for customers to discover the fastest delivery windows available in their area.

Source: canadiangrocer.com

US: Costco Wholesale Corporation reports third quarter and year-to-date operating results for fiscal 2021

Costco Wholesale Corporation (“Costco” or the “Company”) announced its operating results for the third quarter (12 weeks) and the first 36 weeks of fiscal 2021, ended May 9, 2021. Net sales for the quarter increased 21.7%, to $44.38bln, from $36.45bln last year. Net sales for the first 36 weeks increased 17.7%, to $130.61bln, from $110.94bln last year.

Source: investor.costco.com

US: Sheetz becomes first convenience store chain to accept bitcoin

Sheetz, a major Mid-Atlantic restaurant and convenience chain, announced it will be enabling digital currency payments via Flexa, the leading pure-digital payments network, to provide customers with the ability to pay for items inside the store or fill up their cars, trucks, and RVs at the pump using digital currencies like bitcoin, ether, litecoin, dogecoin, and more.

Source: prnewswire.com

Mercator Group Reports Profit Of €3.1m In Q1 2021

Slovenian retailer Mercator Group has reported a profit of €3.1 million, up 183.9% year-on-year, in the first quarter of its financial year. The group recorded a 7.4% growth in normalised EBITDA during the quarter, which amounted to €47.3 million in this period. Revenues from retail sales, the core business of the Mercator Group, increased by 8.9% in the first quarter compared to the same period in 2019.

Source: www.esmmagazine.com

Expansion continues this year with ongoing investment by SPAR Spain partners

Bringing the brand to new neighbourhoods typifies the growth of SPAR in Spain with affiliated operators having a multi-format strategy to meet shopper needs. Creating employment for six colleagues and offering home-delivery, the new 120m² SPAR Express in A Valenzà epitomises convenience. The neighbourhood can choose from 1,300 products including fresh, SPAR Own Brand and well-known brands. The bakery, fruit and vegetable range and charcuterie choice attract customers.

Source: spar-international.com

ALDI officially UK's cheapest supermarket

Aldi has been named as the UK’s lowest-priced supermarket by trade magazine The Grocer, in its independent price comparison survey. Its latest win means the supermarket has maintained an unbeaten record since it was first included as a ‘guest retailer’ in the Grocer 33 in 2014.The recent analysis by The Grocer shows the Big Four supermarkets are £9.10 (21%) more expensive than Aldi on a basket of 33 everyday grocery items, while its most expensive rival, Waitrose is £23.76 (55%) pricier. It also found that shoppers are £8.41 – or 19% – worse off shopping at Tesco than at Aldi and £6.22 – or 14% – out of pocket shopping at its closest rival, Asda.

Source: www.aldipresscentre.co.uk



Carrefour Italia is the first international retailer to join Filera Italia

Carrefour Italia, one of the leading players in the Italian large-scale distribution sector, with over 1,450 stores in 18 Italian regions, is the first multinational retailer to join Filiera Italia, association dedicated to the enhancement and promotion of Made in Italy agri-food excellence. Carrefour Italia and Filiera Italia announced that they have defined a collaboration agreement on the basis of common values such as the promotion of Made in Italy.

Source: www.carrefour.com

GrabSupermarket launches in Singapore

Grab has partnered with HAO Mart to launch a next-day delivery service as part of its strategic expansion of GrabMart. GrabSupermarket will provide over 5,000 products from HAO mart, including meat and poultry, vegetables, frozen food, dry goods and instant foods, dairy products, condiments, snacks, drinks and non-food essentials. This will be expanded to more than 10,000 products over the next few months. The partnership will meet the growing market of shoppers who enjoy the speed and convenience of online grocery shopping. Shoppers can choose from a wide range of products and pay one delivery fee.

Source: retailanalysis.igd.com

SPAR unveils investment plans and new store concept

At its virtual trade conference SPAR unveiled plans to invest £125m in its stores, supply chain, and IT over the next 12 months to capitalise on its strong performance during the pandemic. After benefiting from the consumers shopping more locally during 2020, the convenience symbol group highlighted that its sales were still up 8.5% over the four weeks ended 28 March 2021, compared to the same period two years ago before the crisis. This growth is being driven by bigger baskets (+31%) and changes in the chain’s product mix and pack sizes.

Source: www.kamcity.com