VANCOUVER, British Columbia, March 18, 2021 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- DMG Blockchain Solutions Inc. (TSX-V: DMGI) (DMGGF:OTCQB US) (FRANKFURT:6AX) (“DMG” or the “Company”), a vertically integrated blockchain and cryptocurrency technology company, today announces that its Board of Directors has approved, along with its self-mining, to incorporate a Bitcoin accumulation strategy to significantly increase the Company’s Bitcoin (“BTC”) treasury holdings. After watching for buying opportunities in the market over the last few days and weeks, DMG has started to implement this plan by executing Bitcoin purchases in the amount of roughly 220 BTC since Monday afternoon through customary cryptocurrency exchanges and direct over-the-counter (“OTC”) trades. DMG intends to periodically purchase BTC, based on market conditions, trends and corporate opportunities.



Over the long term, DMG intends to increase its Bitcoin treasury by mining and holding it. In addition, the Company will, from time to time, acquire Bitcoin through a direct investment model such as using funds which are budgeted for later capital deployments. This will allow DMG to use Bitcoin as an ideal store of value, and also as a means to transact, as needed.

“Buying Bitcoin helps to efficiently diversify DMG’s monetary holdings away from cash, and over time we intend to make BTC our treasury currency of choice,” said DMG’s COO, Sheldon Bennett. "We are well connected in this industry and therefore know that many more companies will shortly begin to add Bitcoin to their balance sheets as a hedge against the ongoing dilution and inflation. We believe this will contribute to an even stronger Bitcoin price in the coming weeks and months, from which DMG is positioned to significantly benefit.”

Moving forward, DMG will continue to implement its two-fold business strategy: to grow the corporate blockchain businesses in all of its three divisions (including but not limited to Bitcoin mining and Bitcoin pool management), and to hold newly-mined Bitcoin rewards and acquire additional Bitcoin as a treasury reserve asset, when possible.

“Just as an individual or corporate investor might hold large cash positions, so they might face significant risk of loss of value due to inflation alone. However, that risk doesn’t exist with Bitcoin, which is a deflationary asset by default, with an ever-increasing demand for this superior cryptocurrency. This demand is mainly driven by rapidly growing institutional adoption and an increasingly large demand by retail investors. Coupled with a drastically declining supply of new coins, ultimately, we expect continuously rising Bitcoin prices, which is exactly what we’ve been witnessing in the last few months. We believe Bitcoin has and will continue to have greater value than traditional currencies such as the US dollar,” added DMG’s CEO, Daniel Reitzik.

About DMG Blockchain Solutions Inc.



DMG is a vertically integrated blockchain and cryptocurrency company that manages, operates, and develops end-to-end digital solutions to monetize the blockchain ecosystem. DMG’s businesses are segmented into three main divisions: data centre operations, data analytics and forensics and developing enterprise blockchains. DMG’s data centre operations focus on earning revenues from block rewards and transaction fees by mining primarily bitcoin as well as providing hosting services for industrial mining clients. DMG’s data analytics and forensic services provide technical expertise software products such as Blockseer Pool, Mine Manager and Walletscore, as well as working with auditors, law firms, and law enforcement organizations. DMG’s permissioned blockchain technology is focused on developing enterprise software for the supply chain management of controlled products. DMG’s strategy is to become the domain experts across the business verticals it focuses on. DMG’s management team includes seasoned crypto experts, forensic & financial professionals and blockchain developers with deep relationships throughout the industry.

Future changes in the Bitcoin network-wide mining difficulty rate or Bitcoin hashrate may materially affect the future performance of DMG’s production of Bitcoin, and future operational results could also be materially affected by the price of Bitcoin and an increase in hashrate mining difficulty.

For more information on DMG Blockchain Solutions visit: www.dmgblockchain.com

On behalf of the Board of Directors,



Daniel Reitzik, CEO & Director

For further information, please contact:

DMG Blockchain Solutions Inc.

Email: investors@dmgblockchain.com

Web: www.dmgblockchain.com

For Media Inquiries :

Jules Abraham, Head of Public Relations

CORE IR

jabraham@coreir.com

Investor Relations Contact :

CORE IR 516-222-2560



Neither the TSX Venture Exchange nor its Regulation Service Provider (as that term is defined in the policies of the TSX Venture Exchange) accepts responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of this news release.

Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Information



This news release contains “forward-looking information or statements” based on current expectations. Statements about the Company’s plans for purchasing Bitcoin, mining and holding Bitcoin, the expected price of Bitcoin, growing the corporate blockchain businesses, to increase petahash (PH) by self-mining, price of bitcoin, plans and intentions, other potential transactions, acquisition of customers, product development, events, courses of action, and the potential of the Company’s technology and operations, among others, are all forward-looking information. Forward-looking statements consist of statements that are not purely historical, including any statements regarding beliefs, plans, expectations or intentions regarding the future. Such information can generally be identified by the use of forwarding looking wording such as “may”, “expect”, “estimate”, “anticipate”, “intend”, “believe” and “continue” or the negative thereof or similar variations. The reader is cautioned that assumptions used in the preparation of any forward-looking information may prove to be incorrect. Events or circumstances may cause actual results to differ materially from those predicted, as a result of numerous known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors, many of which are beyond the control of the Company, including but not limited to, business, economic and capital market conditions; the ability to manage operating expenses, which may adversely affect the Company’s financial condition; the ability to remain competitive as other better financed competitors develop and release competitive products; regulatory uncertainties; access to equipment; market conditions and the demand and pricing for products; the demand and pricing of bitcoins; security threats, including a loss/theft of DMG’s bitcoins; DMG’s relationships with its customers, distributors and business partners; the inability to add more power to DMG’s facilities; DMG’s ability to successfully define, design and release new products in a timely manner that meet customers’ needs; the ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel; competition in the industry; the impact of technology changes on the products and industry; failure to develop new and innovative products; the ability to successfully maintain and enforce our intellectual property rights and defend third-party claims of infringement of their intellectual property rights; the impact of intellectual property litigation that could materially and adversely affect the business; the ability to manage working capital; and the dependence on key personnel. DMG may not actually achieve its plans, projections, or expectations. Such statements and information are based on numerous assumptions regarding present and future business strategies and the environment in which the Company will operate in the future, including the demand for its products, the ability to successfully develop software, that there will be no regulation or law that will prevent the Company from operating its business, anticipated costs, the ability to secure sufficient capital to complete its business plans, the ability to achieve goals and the price of bitcoin. Given these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.

The securities of DMG are considered highly speculative due to the nature of DMG’s business.

Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements include, failure to obtain regulatory approval, the continued availability of capital and financing, equipment failures, lack of supply of equipment, power and infrastructure, failure to obtain any permits required to operate the business, the impact of technology changes on the industry, the impact of Covid-19 or other viruses and diseases on the Company’s ability to operate, secure equipment, and hire personnel, competition, security threats including stolen bitcoins from DMG or its customers, consumer sentiment towards DMG’s products, services and blockchain technology generally, failure to develop new and innovative products, decrease in the price of Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies, litigation, increase in operating costs, increase in equipment and labor costs, failure of counterparties to perform their contractual obligations, government regulations, loss of key employees and consultants, and general economic, market or business conditions. Forward-looking statements contained in this news release are expressly qualified by this cautionary statement. The reader is cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking information. The forward-looking statements contained in this news release are made as of the date of this news release. Except as required by law, the Company disclaims any intention and assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Additionally, the Company undertakes no obligation to comment on the expectations of, or statements made by third parties in respect of the matters discussed above.