THE value of Bitcoin has crashed in recent weeks after hitting record highs.

We explain how much the popular cryptocurrency is worth, and what investors need to keep in mind.

🚀 Follow our cyptocurrency live blog for the very latest news on Bitcoin, Dogecoin and market surges...

1 We explain what you need to know about Bitcoin's value Credit: Getty

Buying cryptocurrencies, like any investment, is a very risky business and making money is never guaranteed.

You should make sure you know the risks of investing in cryptocurrencies and that you can afford to lose any money you put in.

Cryptocurrencies are highly volatile, so the value of your investments can go down as well as up in the blink of an eye.

As always, never invest in something you don't understand.

5 risks of crypto investments BELOW we round up five risks of investing in cryptocurrencies. Consumer protection : Some investments advertising high returns based on cryptoassets may not be subject to regulation beyond anti-money laundering requirements.

: Some investments advertising high returns based on cryptoassets may not be subject to regulation beyond anti-money laundering requirements. Price volatility : Significant price volatility in cryptoassets, combined with the inherent difficulties of valuing cryptoassets reliably, places consumers at a high risk of losses.

: Significant price volatility in cryptoassets, combined with the inherent difficulties of valuing cryptoassets reliably, places consumers at a high risk of losses. Product complexity : The complexity of some products and services relating to cryptoassets can make it hard for consumers to understand the risks. There is no guarantee that cryptoassets can be converted back into cash. Converting a cryptoasset back to cash depends on demand and supply existing in the market.

: The complexity of some products and services relating to cryptoassets can make it hard for consumers to understand the risks. There is no guarantee that cryptoassets can be converted back into cash. Converting a cryptoasset back to cash depends on demand and supply existing in the market. Charges and fees : Consumers should consider the impact of fees and charges on their investment which may be more than those for regulated investment products.

: Consumers should consider the impact of fees and charges on their investment which may be more than those for regulated investment products. Marketing materials: Firms may overstate the returns of products or understate the risks involved.

What is Bitcoin?

Bitcoin is a virtual currency that was created in 2009 by an unknown computer whizz using the alias Satoshi Nakamoto.

Unlike physical currencies such as dollars, pounds or euros, which come in physical notes and coins, Bitcoin isn't printed or minted.

Instead, Bitcoin tokens are a digital-only form of payment and are created by a computer code.

Bitcoin is powered by blockchain technology, which is at the heart of most cryptocurrencies.

Blockchain can seem very complicated, but it's a kind of database used to record transactions.

How much is Bitcoin worth?

The price of Bitcoin is currently sitting at $39,383, down by 2% over the past 24 hours, according to CoinMarketCap.

The cryptocurrency was worth a higher $40,635 yesterday, but was still way down from its all-time high of $64,621 on April 14 .

Bitcoin has crashed in value after China this week announced a further crackdown on cryptocurrencies.

The country has banned financial institutions from offering crypto related transactions, and warned investors against speculative trading in them.

It comes after the cryptocurrency plunged last week as Elon Musk said Tesla would no longer accept Bitcoin payments to buy cars.

The founder cited the harmful effects to the environment that comes with mining the cryptocurrency, which is a hugely energy-intensive process.

What are the risks of investing in Bitcoin?

Investing is always a risk but investing in cryptocurrency is an even higher risk as they are VERY volatile, so you should be prepared to lose cash.

There is also no guarantee that you can convert cryptoassests back into cash, as it may depend on the demand and supply in the existing market.

Plus, fees and charges may be higher than with regulated investment products.

Cryptocurrency firms aren't regulated in the way that other financial firms are. This means that you won't have any protection if things go wrong.

Laith Khalaf, financial analyst at AJ Bell, said: "The price of Bitcoin has tumbled by a third over the last month, which highlights the extreme risk inherent in cryptocurrency.

"Some rough and tumble is to be expected when holding something as volatile as cryptocurrency, but in recent weeks there have been significant developments which undermine Bitcoin’s long term prospects.

“The tide has turned on Bitcoin because environmental concerns and regulatory risks have materialised, which have raised doubt over the long term adoption of cryptocurrency by businesses and consumers."

Most read in Money HOUSE MONEY Homeowner checks ARE coming as calls for all Americans to get more money grow PAYDAY! IRS sends out over 2.3m overdue stimulus checks worth $4.2b to eligible Americans STIM WIN Congress is back in session THIS WEEK as lawmakers push for 4th stimulus check CHECK YOURSELF Families in line for $2,000 MONTHLY payments after 2.3million sign petition CHECKING IN Monthly ‘stimulus checks’ start on July 15 ...here’s how to get it IN THE BANK Bonus stimulus check may be on way to your account if you filed your tax return

In January, the UK's Financial Conduct Authority warned that households risk losing ALL of their money if they invest in cryptocurrencies.

It was followed by a similar warning by Andrew Bailey - the boss of the Bank of England.

Meanwhile, a Russian 27-year-old recently became the world's youngest crypto billionaire after his cryptocurrency Ethereum surged in value.