Bitcoin is not a thing of the future or the “next big thing” anymore. It is here, and it is working extensively to change the global financial model as we have known for the past century. It is, what can be called, the only natural progression to the form of money.

As you see, the concept of money has seen several forms in human history, since it came as an alternative to a barter system. Over the ages, humans have evolved from using precious metals in exchange for goods and services to digitally transferring a currency with a swipe of a finger. It was all part of the financial evolution of human civilisation.

There are, however, underlying principles that decide what can and should be constituted as money for an economy. We cannot use mangoes as a form of money, can we? (Though we should), it lacks some basic elements that are needed to determine an asset’s value.

Precious metals like gold and silver meet those criteria. Modern currencies have been tailored to fit the model and hence hold their value. So what about cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin? Do they have these elements that can mark their value enough for them to be used as the primary form of money?

The answer to this question depends on whether cryptocurrencies can outclass fiat money and gold. Here, we try to examine the advantages and disadvantages of cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin over fiat money like US Dollar or British pound sterling as well as precious metals like gold to find the answer.

Determining the value of a currency

(Image: Reuters)

Humans have created and used numerous forms of currencies since the age of dawn for ease of transaction. The evolution was mostly fueled by the limitations of a barter system - time taken to find the right commodity, agreeing to a quantity, restarting the process if the deal doesn’t go through.

Products like salt, seeds, beans, animal skins and even weapons hence came to be in use over time. These, however, had a limited value due to their easy production or procurement. You would not trade your wheat for beans if you have beans planted at your home, right? So if everyone is able to grow beans, they lose their relative exchange value.

Some, like Cocoa beans, were of more value in comparison to other alternatives in this regard. The scarcity of the “currency” was the key-value determinant.

As the need for a more “valuable” currency arose, humans turned to precious metals. One and possibly the foremost reason why precious metals have stood their ground as a currency form since the early human ages is their rarity. Since these metals could not be found or mined in substantial quantities overnight, their relative value in an exchange remained stable.

There were, of course, other factors too. Metals like gold did not physically deteriorate over time, ensuring their shelf life for prolonged use. They could be transported more easily as coins than most other commodities that might exchange hands in a barter.

Metal coins were thus the dominant form of currency for the majority of human history. It was not until the 16th century that paper currency came into widespread use. Paper currencies provided a more divisible form of currency to be shared between two parties and hence gained precedence over metal coins.

Even then, it was issued by banks to depositors and borrowers, and not the governments, as they are today. As the paper currency increased global trade over the years, governments around the world started regulating these currencies to maintain their own economies. This regulation largely gave rise to the financial system as we see it today.

There are learnings that we can take from this reminiscence. First, a currency must be scarce to maintain its value. It also needs to be durable and easily transferable for optimum utility. It should be divisible to enable ease of transaction. But most importantly, it needs to be regulated by the governing authority.

Other, underlying factors also determine a currency’s value, like its counterfeitability and security, as mentioned by Investopedia.

Bitcoin is not gold - it is better

(Image: Reuters)

Now that we know what characteristics are expected of an ideal currency, it is easy to see how Bitcoin fairs against fiat money and gold. Taking gold, for example, we can easily determine how Bitcoin is not like gold but better.

Scarcity of precious metals is pretty much all that has helped gold and silver maintain their relative value over the centuries. In ancient times, they used to solve a purpose. As mentioned, they were easily transportable, malleable into coins, had long shelf lives and basically were better than- any other commodity to be used.

These strengths are pretty much lost on such metals now. Other than their established history of being an integral part of the financial system, they are of no practicality to a person today. They are not easily transferable, not as long-lasting as other currency options, not as divisible, not as secure, not as decentralised and certainly not as smart.

Bitcoin shines through in these criteria. The cryptocurrency brings one of the most modern forms of technologies - blockchain - to solve these key issues.

Bitcoin is limited in quantity, with only 21 million Bitcoins ever to exist in the world. It thus retains its relative value just as gold. It is also secure, decentralised and highly efficient for transactions. In short, Bitcoin serves a purpose and does not just exist in the financial system because of ancient practices.

Think of it this way - If all the fiat currency is removed from the world today, would you rely on gold or Bitcoin for transactions?

The answer is obvious, right?

Bitcoin trumps fiat currency

We can compare Bitcoin, and cryptocurrency in general, with fiat currency on the basis of these and other factors.

Bitcoin is limited in nature, while all other fiat currencies are produced by the government periodically. This means Bitcoin has an increased scarcity and hence is of high value. This is also why the price of one Bitcoin vis-a-vis various currencies soars like a skyscraper.

Of course, the constant supply of fiat currencies is important for preventing quantitative scarcity, but the excess quantity, in turn, results in a drop in their value, leading to inflation. Part of this periodic supply also goes towards compensating for damaged currency notes, rendering them unusable. Bitcoin faces no such problem, simply because it does not manifest in a physical form.

Other than being infinitely more “durable” than fiat currencies, cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin are also secure. Bitcoin, for instance, works on a decentralised ledger system that is checked for accuracy multiple times on each individual ledger, meaning a transaction will only be approved if all the systems on the network approve it as per their own recordings. This means the chances of Bitcoin being counterfeited is infinitesimal.

Another very important factor that favours Bitcoin is its divisibility up to 8 decimal points. 1 Bitcoin can be sliced into 0.00000001 parts, with each part called a "Satoshi", for easier transactions. This is just as a US Dollar can be divided into cents, though none of the fiat currencies has as much divisibility as Bitcoin.

So what does Bitcoin lack?

Bitcoin needs legitimacy

(Image: Reuters)

Remember how the world transitioned from metal coins to paper currencies? The switch was made possible only because financial institutions and regulatory bodies at the time pushed to do so. They saw the perks and they went for a new phase in human history that lasts to date.

At present, cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin are gaining stupendous value in anticipation that they will be the future form of currency around the world. They have all the advantages over prevalent currency forms but what they lack is approval and consequent regulation by the world governments.

This is not an easy task. Bitcoin, in some way, was made to transfer the power that exists with the prevalent banking institutions to the people. The decentralised maintenance and transactions achieve the same, but it is this very nature that also makes Bitcoin very hard to be regulated.

Since inception, cryptocurrencies have been a useful tool for the black market. That is because Bitcoin and similar options enable secure, anonymous or pseudonymous transactions. Linking them back to an account is almost impossible for anyone.

The countries are hence finding it tough to regulate this cryptocurrency market that works in the shadows. Any reluctance to legitimise Bitcoin or other cryptocurrencies originates from an incapability to do so, more so than a lack of will itself.

But that doesn’t mean that cryptocurrencies can never be regulated. There are several such areas of developments that find a limited adoption in the real world, simply because of a lack of legal frameworks. Technology for self-driving cars is one of them.

This doesn’t mean that autonomous cars will never come on the roads. The technology has started to appear in prominent forms and is only expected to see increased adoption in the coming years.

In all probability, the use of cryptocurrency and Bitcoins will see a similar case in human evolution. Once there is regulatory support for these as legitimate forms of currencies for all purposes, there is nothing stopping Bitcoin from bringing about a whole new era of finances.