ASHEBORO - Bitcoin mining, one of the hottest global phenomenons, may be coming to rural North Carolina. A company, vaguely named NC Mine 1, LLC and headquartered in California, requested to rezone an area along Spencer Meadow Road in Randolph County from a residential agricultural district to a light industrial district.

In other words, they want to change their land from a place where people live and grow plants to a place where they can manufacture something—in this case, virtual currency.

Residents in the area were against the development of the facility from the start, hiring lawyers and launching a media campaign against it. We at The Courier-Tribune decided to investigate their claims and see how bitcoin mining impacts communities. So what does bitcoin mining entail, and what was the fate of NC Mine 1, LLC and Spencer Meadow Road?

First of all, what is bitcoin and why is it "mined"?

Bitcoin was born in a mysterious way. Its creator, who goes by the pseudonym Satoshi Nakamoto, is still an enigma to the public. The idea of bitcoin first circulated in cryptography community in 2008 and was given life in 2009 with 30,000 lines of code.

Bitcoin is a virtual currency, and every transaction using bitcoin is kept on a public ledger that anyone and everyone can see. Each entry of the ledger is built on a technology called blockchain, which basically uses algorithms to stitch blocks of bitcoin transactions in irreversible order. Think of it like putting pages of a book together. If you switch the pages, it wouldn't make sense at all. That's what is so powerful about blockchain and why it is the foundation of Bitcoin.

Bitcoin mining is how every new bitcoin is generated and how every block is added to the blockchain. It involves computers solving complex mathematical equations and is therefore very resource intensive.

How did Randolph County residents react?

Randolph County residents located near the proposed mining site were not pleased with the thought of supercomputers that would produce heat and require loud cooling systems. Some concerns stemmed around reports from people in other areas with Bitcoin mining sites, with accounts that systems could be heard five miles away.

The mining site would be located near 50 houses, the Pinewood County Club, horse barn, and creek, leading neighbors to worry about unbearable living conditions that would affect the property value of their homes. The neighbors hired a lawyer to find a solution and speak on their behalf.

Thank you for supporting local journalism with your subscription to The Courier-Tribune.

Attorney Matthew Altamura, of Garrett, Walker, Aycoth, and Altamura LLP, said the firm expected to hear about the plans of the Bitcoin mining farms at a hearing with the Randolph County Planning Board.

Planning and Zoning Director Jay Dale is not surprised by lawyers speaking on the behalf of a community since it happens often enough. "Sometimes people hire lawyers to speak at the hearing itself. Ultimately, if the planning board and the Randolph County Board of Commissioners make a decision that somebody disagrees with the next step is going to superior court."

How can bitcoin mining affect communities like Randolph County?

Bitcoin mining also has a environmental toll because of the massive amounts of energy it takes to generate bitcoins. Besides powering computers, energy is needed for cooling fans.

Mining farms had a significant impact on birds and honeybees specifically, which may have a huge impact on the Asheboro Country Club farming and farming of neighbors.

Around the country, people have worn ear protection to cancel out the noise and had children refuse to go outside.

Reports have shown that mining farms draw massive power, creating a significant electromagnetic field of power running from servers that produce noise. Exhaust fans also produce a tremendous amount of noise and produce other economic effects that could certainly impact the surrounding area.

"We’re also looking at how it affects daily living when we’re looking at some of the personal and antidotal complaints of people who live there about the consequence, what they describe as a Jet engine noise coming from the major exhaust systems used to cool these farms," Altamura said.

Altamura wanted to find out why the site was requested in the middle of a populated area with homes passed down through generations. It's all one family, the two people proposing the site have their family opposing it, according to Altamura.

"It’s all ancestral land back to one great, great grandfather, and it's been divided over the years," Altamura said. "These two gentlemen have this little bit of land in the middle and they’re putting it where all of their residents have their homes. So why choose to put it where it will affect real estate prices and the country club?"

Altamura has also seen the quick rise and fall of Bitcoin due to crashes, citing examples of Bitcoin fluctuating from pennies to thousands of dollars. "What happens if it's the next crash and Bitcoin is worthless again for a period of time? It’s not profitable to run this business, then what happens, everybody’s stuck with a giant eyesore sitting out there for no reason?"

On the other hand, bitcoin mining can generate economic value for residents who are no longer using the land for residential or agricultural purposes, thus acting as an economic stimulant. Part of what makes bitcoin mining so extraordinary is its decentralized and democratized nature. Anyone with some space and some servers can set up a mining site and contribute to the development and propagation of this technology.

It also makes the most economic sense to build mining centers in rural areas where the land is cheap. You wouldn't see a bitcoin mining center in New York City but it certainly should not be a surprise in Randolph County, North Carolina, where the land is much cheaper and more plentiful.

What ended up happening?

The day of the hearing, Planning and Zoning Director Jay Dale noticed that NC Mine, LLC "just sent a notification stating they are withdrawing the request."

Residents viewed this as a victory and quietly went on with their lives. The Courier-Tribune contacted NC Mine, LLC and the owners of the land for comment but did not receive a response. For now, the land will remain as an agricultural residential district. Whether the 11.8-acre tract will ever be used for bitcoin mining is still up in the air.

What's so fascinating about Bitcoin is its lack of institutional ties. Bitcoin doesn't have an allegiance to any organization or governing body. That's what makes it such a challenge for governments to regulate in a world of rapidly-developing technology. Will Bitcoin mining will spread throughout rural communities like Randolph County the way it has in Iceland and China? That remains a mystery.

Petruce Jean-Charles is a Government Watchdog Reporter. They are interested in what's going on in the community and are open to tips on people, businesses and issues. Contact Petruce at pjeancharles@gannett.com and follow @PetruceKetsia on Twitter.

Michelle Shen is an Economic and Data Reporter for The Courier Tribune. Feel free to reach out to her with story tips on Twitter (michelle_shen10), Instagram (pretty_photos_by_michelle OR michelle_shen10), or email (mshen@gannett.com).