Jim Cramer says yesterday's bitcoin-triggered mayhem underscores the need for tighter regulation on what he sees as a 'new systemic' risk in the market.

Bitcoin's spectacular crash, and the rally that followed, has rattled investors around the world and intensified calls Thursday for clearer regulation over the multi-trillion dollar cryptocurrency market.

Bitcoin, the world's biggest cryptocurrency with an estimated market value of around $2 trillion, suffered its biggest single-day decline in more than a year yesterday, falling nearly 30% on the session to just under $30,000. A late-morning rally, however, triggered in part by a cryptic Tweet from Tesla (TSLA) - Get Report CEO Elon Musk, lifted bitcoin to just over $40,000, a move that also pulled the Dow Jones Industrial Average out of a 600 point tailspin and helped add more than 100 points to the S&P 500.

Despite yesterday's comeback, a notable amount of leverage in the cryptocurrency universe -- with buyers using borrowed money to capture momentum in digital currency markets -- as well as technical challenges within some of the market's biggest trading exchange have accelerated calls for tighter oversight in a market that has yet to find a clear definition among U.S. regulators.

"Time for the SEC to consider crypto and asset worth regulating ... that's what yesterday was about: the need for regulation," TheStreet's founder, Jim Cramer, Tweeted Thursday. "One hundred to one leverage is not healthy for the system. New systemic risk identified."

Bitcoin prices traded as low at $29,995.00 on European exchanges Wednesday, were last seen 3% higher on the Thursday session at $40,329.50, a level that still marks a 37% slump from the all-time high of $64,829.14 it reached on April 15.

The Securities and Exchange Commission, at least at the moment, doesn't consider bitcoin itself to be a financial security that falls under its jurisdiction, while the Commodity Futures Trading Commission considers it a commodity.

To further complicate matters, the Internal Revenue Service sees it as property, at least in terms of any potential tax liability attached to its capital gains.

A recent move by Congressional lawmakers to clarify this discrepancy -- the Eliminate Barriers to Innovation Act -- would create a small group of experts tasked with merging the CFTC and the SEC's frameworks on digital asset regulation and decide, once and for all, if it should be deemed a security or a commodity.

The legislation, however, has yet to pass the Senate and may not become law until later in the year, leaving the ultimate decision on bitcoin oversight on hold.

In the meantime, the overall leverage in the market remains a more pressing near-term concern, especially after yesterday's collapse appeared to trigger selling in mainstream assets such as stocks and bonds in order to meet margin calls in various brokerage accounts.

Data from Bygt.com, a cryptocurrency futures trading & information platform, showed that more than 720,000 accounts around the world were liquidated yesterday, representing around $8.1 billion worth of bitcoin.

That was exacerbated by technical glitches at the two largest crypo exchanges - Coinbase and Binance -- with the latter temporarily pausing withdraws linked to Ethereum and the former reporting "“intermittent downtime” on the U.S.-based platform.

"A number of crypto exchanges have supported 10x margin leverage and 50x or greater futures leverage -- Binance supports up to 125x and 100x leverage on Bitcoin and Ethereum futures contracts, respectively, and up to 50x or 75x leverage for a slew of other cryptos," said Eric Jhonsa in a column on TheStreet's Real Money platform. "It's not hard to guess what happens to crypto prices when such contracts are liquidated en-masse due to maintenance requirements not being met."