BitcoinVend (BCVT) Token Is Now Listed on Bitcoin.com Exchange

press release

PRESS RELEASE. Bitcoin.com Exchange is thrilled to announce the listing of BCVT, being available to trade on the 20th May 2021 at 10:00AM UTC. BCVT was created by the BitcoinVend team, as the native cryptocurrency of their BitcoinVend App. BCVT will start trading with USDT and ETH pairs.

What is BitcoinVend?

BitcoinVend’s mission is to enable cryptocurrency to become more integrated into everyday life, and the economy at large so that the world can make the most of this technology.

As with most projects, BitcoinVend is solving a current issue in the market, one surrounding spending crypto more easily. The project does this by means of an all-in-one solution that combines the three core elements needed to facilitate trade: a marketplace, payment processing, and exchange. By combining these three elements in the same place and making it simple, the team has created a frictionless crypto ecosystem that anyone can use as they wish, which in turn will open the crypto market to millions of more people and reduce the need for converting it to fiat currency.

With just a Smartphone and BitcoinVend, the un-banked and citizens of countries experiencing hyperinflation have a simple solution which anyone can understand. BitcoinVend solves the issue for these countries because there is no bank account or credit card required, setup is incredibly easy, and the user is then able to sell products or services to locals as well as gain exposure to a global community of potential customers.

The deflationary nature of cryptocurrencies could help solve issues in countries such as South Sudan, Venezuela, and Zimbabwe, and with BitcoinVend using crypto is made incredibly easy.

In conclusion, crypto has enormous potential to improve lives, BitcoinVend simply makes it a lot more practical, and eliminates the barrier to entry.

What is the BCVT token?

BitcoinVend Tokens (BCVT) enable the holder to become more deeply involved in the community and BitcoinVend ecosystem as a whole, below you may find BitcoinVend Token use cases:

Membership

BCVT can be used to acquire BitcoinVend Membership.

In-App Fees

The first function of BCVT is to cover fees within the app.

In-App Payment

App users can pay for goods & services in the app with BCVT.

Signup Rewards

To incentivize users to download the app, the team is giving away BCVT.

Referral Rewards

To incentivise users to refer others, BCVT will be used as a reward.

Trust Score

Locking additional BCVT within the app will contribute towards a user’s Trust Score.

Bounty Rewards

BCVT bounties will be offered to users with a high Trust Score for various activities.

Mediation Rewards

Users who mediate disputes will be rewarded with BCVT.

Community Voting

BCVT holders will be able to take part in voting.

Staking Rewards

BCVT holders will be able to stake their tokens.

For more information one may find more information on the BitcoinVend token (BCVT) here.

Strong Endorsement

Danish Chaudhry, CEO of Bitcoin.com Exchange, shared his views on BitcoinVend, and their respective token: “One pain point for mass adoption is accessibility, and BitcoinVend’s mission is solving this via their products and platforms. I’m eager to see how this project evolves in the future, and I firmly believe that with their vision, this project can gain a lot of interest within the Bitcoin.com Exchange community.”



Joe Jewson, BitcoinVend Co-founder & Marketing Manager expressed his enthusiasm with the listing, stating that: “It is with pleasure that we expose our new start-up and BCVT token to the Bitcoin.com Exchange community. As with all companies in the space our interests in mass adoption are aligned and together we can reach a wider market of people with solutions that enable cryptocurrency to become more integrated throughout society. Thank you Bitcoin.com Exchange.”

About Bitcoin.com Exchange

The mission of Bitcoin.com Exchange is to empower people from all over the world to trade cryptocurrencies with ease and confidence, from first-time traders to advanced trading professionals. With high liquidity, 24/7 multilingual support and dozens of trading pairs, complemented with a high level of security, we offer an attractive platform for trading any cryptocurrency. Within one year since launch, on average, our exchange has been visited by more than 500K active traders per month, and this number continues to grow as you read this sentence.

About BitcoinVend

The mission of BitcoinVend is to enable cryptocurrency to become more integrated into everyday life and the economy, so that people and businesses can make the most of blockchain technology. With three core elements needed to facilitate trade: marketplace, payment solution and exchange, combined into a Smartphone App, BitcoinVend enables users to buy/sell goods & services, settle payments and convert cryptocurrencies with speed, security and ease.

This is a press release. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the promoted company or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in the press release.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons