Tesla CEO Elon Musk revealed Tuesday that you can now purchase a Tesla vehicle in the U.S. using bitcoin.

The American auto and clean energy company has set up an entire bitcoin support page on its website to help guide prospective car buyers on how to pay using the increasingly popular cryptocurrency.

To pay with bitcoin, all you need to do is “initiate payment from your bitcoin wallet.” You can either scan the QR code, or copy and paste the bitcoin address and the exact amount into your wallet, according to Tesla’s website.

Musk also disclosed on Twitter that people outside of the U.S. will be able to buy Tesla vehicles using bitcoin “later this year.”

Pay by Bitcoin capability available outside US later this year — Elon Musk (@elonmusk) March 24, 2021

Tesla made headlines just last month by investing $1.5 billion in bitcoin, while announcing in its recent SEC filing plans to accept it as a form of payment “in the near future.” Well, the future came sooner than expected.

Bitcoin is currently the largest cryptocurrency and the first to be widely adopted, according to Coinbase. Its current market capitalization (total value) is $996.8 billion, coming in at just under a $1 trillion, according to real-time data tracked by CoinMarketCap.

To invest, you don’t have to buy one entire bitcoin, you can buy just a fraction. One bitcoin is currently worth over $51,000.

For starters, you need to sign up for a platform that allows you to purchase and exchange cryptocurrency.

Here are some options to get you started:

Overstock also accepts bitcoin as a form of payment. It became the first major retailer to accept bitcoin in 2014, according to a report by CoinDesk.

The online retailer partnered with Coinbase to enable bitcoin as a form of payment. For more information, check out Overstock’s help page here.

Overstock also has a “Bitcoin Bestsellers” page, which is what their customers “love to buy with Bitcoin.”

The following categories are a part of Overstock’s “Bitcoin Bestsellers”:

Learn more about bitcoin and cryptocurrency here.

RELATED STORIES ABOUT RETAIL AND SHOPPING:

Amazon slashes price on Kindle Kids device to all-time low

7 Airbnbs near wineries you can rent for a spring vacation

Samsung’s 2021 smart TVs are now available: See pictures, prices and details of each model

Want more shopping and retail news? Enter your email address



Please subscribe now and support the local journalism YOU rely on and trust.

Nicolette Accardi can be reached at naccardi@njadvancemedia.com. Follow her on Twitter: @N_Accardi. Find NJ.com on Facebook. Have a tip? Tell us. nj.com/tips