If you’ve yet to tune into the White House’s daily press briefings, something you may not know is that they regularly feature Fox News correspondent Peter Doocy asking inane questions that simply serve to further fact-free Republican talking points, or complaining of discrimination because the president didn’t call on him. On Tuesday, Doocy did get to pose a question to White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki, and he used his time to suggest that Major League Baseball shouldn‘t have moved the All-Star Game from Georgia in protest of the state’s new highly restrictive voting law, i.e. conservatives’ bad-faith argument du jour. And, as is typically the case of a Doocy-style inquiry, Psaki was having none of it.

“Is the White House concerned that Major League Baseball is moving their All-Star Game to Colorado where voting regulations are very similar to Georgia?” Doocy asked, a question predicated on bullshit. To which Psaki responded, rhetorically stuffing the Fox News correspondent in a locker: “Well, let me just refute the first point you made. First let me say on Colorado, Colorado allows you to you register on Election Day. Colorado has voting by mail where they send to 100% of people in the state who are eligible, applications to vote by mail; 94% of people in Colorado voted by mail in the 2020 election. They also allow for a range of materials to provide, even if they vote on Election Day, for the limited number of people who vote on Election Day. I think it’s important to remember the context here: The Georgia legislation is built on a lie. There was no widespread fraud in the 2020 election. Georgia’s top Republican election officials have acknowledged that repeatedly in interviews. What there was, however, was record-setting turnout, especially by voters of color. Instead what we’re seeing here for politicians who didn’t like the outcome is they’re not changing their policies to win more votes, they’re changing the rules to exclude more voters, and we certainly see the circumstances as different. Ultimately, though, it’s up to Major League Baseball to determine where they’re holding their All-Star Game.”

Doocy, of course, isn’t the only Republican trying desperately to change the story from “Georgia wants to disenfranchise Black and brown voters and even corporate America is disgusted” to “corporate America should mind its own damn business.” On Monday, Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell warned that corporations should shut their traps or will suffer “consequences” for speaking out. Meanwhile, Senator Tim Scott has also adopted the (false) talking point that Colorado is just as bad as Georgia when it comes to voter laws:

Only, as CNN fact-checker Daniel Dale notes, Colorado’s election laws are wildly different than Georgia’s, for reasons that include but are not limited to the fact that:

Colorado sends ballots to every active registered voter, whereas Georgia voters must send away for a ballot, and “the Secretary of State and other officials are now banned from even sending *applications* to everyone”;

Georgia requires photo IDs to vote, while Colorado lets people use all kinds of non-photo IDs, including bank statements, bills, checks, and birth certificates;

Colorado keeps its drop boxes open 24 hours a day until the night of Election Day, while Georgia’s now must be inside, are only available during early voting hours, and are closed the Friday before Election Day;

Colorado lets people register to vote on Election Day, whereas the deadline in Georgia is approximately five weeks before Election Day;

Colorado campaigns can give out food and drinks to people standing in line to vote as long as they‘re not wearing specific candidate/party swag; Georgia now prohibits giving out food or drinks to voters with 25 feet of the line, with the exception of self-serve water set out by election staff.

In other words, no, Colorado’s voter laws are not as restrictive as Georgia’s—not by a long shot—and anyone arguing they are is trying to distract from the fact that Georgia would prefer that only white people vote. Anyway, be sure to tune in for the next press briefing in which Doocy asks a question like, “Does President Biden agree that the current COVID crisis is his fault and his fault alone because he is the president?” and Psaki disembowels him on live TV.

If you would like to receive the Levin Report in your inbox daily, click here to subscribe.