The "Global Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP) Market: Analysis and Forecast, 2020-2026" report has been added to ResearchAndMarkets.com's offering.

The purpose of the study is to enable the reader to gain a holistic view of the global CPAP market by each of the aforementioned segments.

The report constitutes an in-depth analysis of the global CPAP market, including a thorough analysis of the different end-users. The study also provides exhaustive information on disease epidemiology, competitive landscape, brand share landscape, market share of the leading players, number of CPAP units shipped, as well as other vital information with respect to the global CPAP market. The report considers CPAP device and Ventilators (offering CPAP mode) manufacturers.

Key Questions Answered in this Report:

How has COVID-19 impacted the adoption of CPAP devices in the market?

What are the key regulations which influence the adoption of CPAP devices in the market?

What are some of the key brands in the global and regional CPAP market?

Who are the top competitors in each region?

What are some of the key factors influencing the growth in adopting CPAP devices across the globe?

How do the brands compare against each other in terms of unit shipments?

What are the fastest-growing countries in terms of CPAP adoption?

Which are the key diseases driving the adoption of CPAP devices across the world?

What are the key strategies being adopted by market players in the global CPAP market?

Who are the most common end-users of CPAP devices, and how are the end-use segment expected to grow in the future?

Key USPs of the Report

Following are some of the key contents of the report:

1. Epidemiological Landscape

This section includes exhaustive information on the epidemiology of key disease indications for the CPAP domain.

2. Patent Scenario

This section encompasses a description of the current patent landscape in the continuous positive airway pressure field.

3. Regulatory Framework

Story continues

This section comprises the information on the regulatory framework for various regulatory bodies associated with granting approval to CPAP devices.

4. Impact of COVID-19

This section of the report encompasses the following:

Impact on CPAP Demand and Supply

Regional Impact

Future Impact (Short-, mid-, and long-term)

In addition, the report provides:

A detailed analysis and growth forecast (2020-2026) for different end-users

Recent developments and trends in the global market landscape

Factors promoting and inhibiting the market growth

Market Dynamics

Drivers

Rising Number of Startups Driving Innovation

Increasing Prevalence of Obstructive Sleep Apnea

Growing Prevalence of Respiratory Diseases Among the Geriatric Population

Growing Prevalence of Chronic Respiratory Diseases across the Globe

Challenges

High Upfront Cost of Device

Side-Effects Associated with Long-Term Usage

Opportunities

Development of Smart CPAP Devices

Digitization of Device Training Modules to Promote Adoption

Companies Mentioned

APEX MEDICAL CORP.

Airon Corporation

Asahi Kasei Corporation

BMC Medical Co., Ltd

Dragerwerk AG & Co. KGaA

Fisher & Paykel Healthcare Limited

General Electric Company

Getinge AB

Koninklijke Philips N.V.

Lowenstein Medical GmbH & Co. KG

Medical Depot, Inc.

Medtronic Plc

ResMed Inc.

Smiths Group plc (Smiths Medical)

VYAIRE MEDICAL, INC.

For more information about this report visit https://www.researchandmarkets.com/r/1kd35k

View source version on businesswire.com: https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20210408005511/en/

Contacts

ResearchAndMarkets.com

Laura Wood, Senior Press Manager

press@researchandmarkets.com

For E.S.T Office Hours Call 1-917-300-0470

For U.S./CAN Toll Free Call 1-800-526-8630

For GMT Office Hours Call +353-1-416-8900