How To Make Online Appointment For Aadhaar Seva Kendra? Classroom oi-Olga Robert

Similar to Passport Seva Kendras that purely deliver services related to passport, the central government started Aadhaar Seva Kendras in 2019. These centres are one-stop places for all Aadhaar-related services and also have online appointment bookings similar to that for Passport.



Users are also making comparisons of Aadhaar appointment services to the appointment facility offered by Passport department and have appreciated the quick services offered by these centres. The Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) has retweeted one such appreciation post from a user.

Try online appointment at Aadhaar Seva Kendra near home. This is similar to Passport Seva Kendra and very well organised with tokens and waiting chairs. Have visited one to change mobile for my daughter and was pleasantly surprised to be out in 20 minutes. Very impressive! — Careless Whispers (@AshishChennai) December 31, 2020

Other users replied to the tweet in agreement.

You can also try the online appointment service from UIDAI that allows you to avail services at the nearest UIDAI-run Aadhaar Seva Kendra or registrar-run Aadhaar Seva Kendra of your choice.

With this appointment, you will have a good idea on when to visit the centre rather than wait in a queue at the bank or a post office.

How to book an appointment for Aadhaar Seva Kendra online?

To book an appointment, visit www.uidai.gov.in

From the "My Aadhaar" drop down option and click on "Book an Appointment".

Select city and location from the drop down. Click on "Proceed to Book Appointment."

Provide your mobile number and an OTP will be sent to you for verification.

Submit Aadhaar details and personal information.

Choose a date and time of your choice.

You will be provided with a booking appointment number.

Aadhaar Seva Kendra is similar to that of a Passport Seva Kendra. There is a token system wherein the applicant first needs to get a token and then move ahead to a 'verifier' for document checking. On completing verification, the resident shall move to 'cash counters' for payment of charges. While enrolment is free, any update in Aadhaar details will be charged with a fee.

There are operator work stations assigned to the applicants and the movement of the queue via token number will be displayed on screens.

At present, the following Aadhaar services are available for users:

Fresh Aadhaar enrolment

Name Update

Address Update

Mobile No. Update

Email ID Update

Date of Birth Update

Gender Update

Biometric (Photo + Fingerprints + Iris) Update