The University of Pennsylvania on May 20 announced a new anonymous gift of $5 million in the form of Bitcoin, the largest cryptocurrency gift the university has ever received. Facilitated by NYDIG, an industry leader in providing Bitcoin technology and financial services, the landmark commitment will support the growth of programs within the Stevens Center for Innovation in Finance at the Wharton School.

“As the nature of philanthropy continues to evolve, Penn stands at the forefront of innovative ways to make a difference in the world,” Penn President Amy Gutmann says. “I am deeply grateful for this creative and groundbreaking gift to support the important work of the Stevens Center. At the Center, the intersection of finance and technology is being reinvented through research, exploratory projects, and engagement with industry leaders, to make the greatest global contributions.”

The Stevens Center for Innovation in Finance was established with the support and partnership of 1991 Wharton undergraduate alumnus Ross Stevens and remains a top entity for education and research in the field of fintech, a rising area of interest among Penn students. By engaging students with Wharton faculty and financial institution leaders, they become immersed in learning about the digital currency ecosystem. Led by Faculty Director David Musto, the Ronald O. Perelman Professor in Finance, the Stevens Center connects curriculum, industry resources and data, events, and partnerships that advance opportunities in fintech.

“With finance at the heart, history, and future of the Wharton School, we are honored to receive this incredible gift,” says Wharton Dean Erika James. “This investment marks a new era and mode of giving to the University and lifts up opportunities for students to become tomorrow’s leaders in finance – through exceptional coursework and transformative interactions with policymakers and industry experts. The blend of innovative philanthropy with the outcomes this promises for students makes this a truly exciting moment for the Wharton community.”

100% of Vanderbilt MS Finance Class of 2021 receives employment offers by graduation

The pandemic, election cycle, and economic uncertainty made for a unique year of recruiting for job-seeking students this academic year. In spite of the challenges, the largest Vanderbilt Master of Science in Finance class in history enjoyed substantial employment success.

All 72 job-seeking members of the Vanderbilt MSF Class of 2021 (an increase from 57 job-seeking graduates in 2020) reported an offer of employment by graduation. To date, 99% of the job-seeking class has accepted an offer, with a year-over-year increase in median salary.

“There is something special about the MSF program and the type of student it attracts,” said Megan Nichols, Senior Associate Director, Career Management Center and MSF Career Coach. “They are willing to put in the hard work and hustle it takes to land roles in competitive industries in investment banking, consulting, and private equity. This year, specifically, we saw that hard work and resilience pay off.”

“At Owen, a powerful combination of factors leads to student success,” said Cherrie Wilkerson, Assistant Dean for Young Professional Programs, Professor for the Practice of Management, and MSF Program Director. “Our faculty understand the knowledge and skills that our students will need in their careers. Our admissions team identifies students with strong track records and a desire to achieve. And our students work closely together to help each other get the job opportunities they want. Our students deserve these great jobs, especially in this pandemic year.”

BYU Marriott names 11 Eccles MBA Scholars

Eleven MBA students were recently recognized as the 2021 Eccles Scholars by the Whitmore Global Business Center at the Brigham Young University Marriott School of Business. The Eccles Scholars award is an annual award of $9,000 given to student applicants through the George S. and Dolores Doré Eccles Foundation.

The foundation was created by George and Dolores Eccles, a couple who valued and supported their community. The foundation seeks to encourage service by promoting projects and programs that aim to better the Utah community and BYU students’ international ventures.

The award winners are selected after a series of interviews with a panel of BYU faculty and staff members. Students who receive this award must demonstrate fluency in a second language, have international experience, desire to pursue international business, and achieve promising academic scores.

“The Eccles award is an accelerator and multiplier that helps students have transformative experiences that propel them along a global business trajectory,” says Jonathon Wood, managing director of the GBC. “Without the award, many would struggle to realize these educational goals. At the GBC, we talk about opening possibility, and that is exactly what this award does.”

DON’T MISS EMORY GOIZUETA LAUNCHES NEW STEM MASTER OF ANALYTICAL FINANCE