NEW YORK, NY - AUGUST 09: A sign hangs in the window of a Papa Johns pizza restaurant on August 9, 2012 in New York City. Papa JohnÕs chief executive, John Schnatter, has stated that due to U.S. President Barack Obama's controversial health-care law he will need to raise costs by 15 to 20 cents a pizza. (Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images)

Instacart partners with 7-Eleven to offer the ultimate in convenience shopping by Cristine Struble

Tasty reasons why the Paloma is the refreshing summer cocktail by Cristine Struble

The Bitcoin Pizza Day is being celebrated by Papa John’s this weekend, complete with a special deal to commemorate the occasion.

In 2010, a man named Laszlo Hanyecz traded 10,000 credits of the cryptocurrency for two large pizzas from a Papa John’s location in Jacksonville, Florida – which would be worth about $613 million in 2021 dollars.

According to Investopedia, the Bitcoin was worth about $41 at the time, though the man responsible for the actual purchase of the pizzas, a British guy Hanycez knew from a Bitcoin-focused chat forum, got a good deal, too, as he only spent around $25.

“It wasn’t like Bitcoins had any value back then, so the idea of trading them for a pizza was incredibly cool,” Hanyecz told the New York Times at some point after the incident..

Bitcoin Pizza Day is being celebrated by Papa John’s this weekend.

One Bitcoin credit is currently worth slightly more than $37,000, though as a digital-only currency (think Rocket League credits or Animal Crossing: Pocket Camp leaf tickets) it is not legal tender or government-backed in any way.

To celebrate the anniversary, Papa John’s will be giving away 10,000 free slices of pizza on Saturday, May 22, and at the Jacksonville, Florida, locations, the first 50 customers to walk in at each location from 11 a.m. to noon ET will receive a free large pizza to commemorate the occasion.

Papa John’s is the fourth-largest pizza chain in the US, founded by John Schnatter in 1984 in the Louisville, Kentucky area. They operate around 5,200 locations in all 50 states and 44 countries, including England, Spain, Russia and China, and were previously the Official Pizza of the NFL from 2010 to 2018 and the title sponsor of the Louisville Cardinals’ football stadium.

Additionally, in more sports-related associations, Los Angeles Lakers legend Shaquille O’Neal is part of their Board of Directors, and the company previously sponsored Leah Pruett’s (then Leah Prichett) NHRA Top Fuel dragster for Don Schumacher Racing. Pruett is the fiancee of IndyCar/NASCAR legend Tony Stewart.

Their current hot main item is the Epic Stuffed Crust pizza, and also have a gluten-free crust option, and in addition to their national specialty pizzas, there are also some regional specialty options that vary by location.

They also have several flavors of wings, breadsticks, dessert items, and tasty-looking calzone/quesadilla things called Papadias as well, with flavors including Buffalo chicken and Philly cheesesteak.

Again, Papa John’s Jacksonville locations will be giving away free Bitcoin-inspired pizzas to walk-in customers between 11 a.m. and noon on Saturday, May 22.