Trading and Investing with CreditEUbank

The financial world and markets have been evolving quickly in the digital space in recent years, and as a result, traders now have access to new ways of investing that were previously unavailable to them. Take Cryptocurrency for example: Crypto is not just a buzzword in the financial world, but rather a new, promising method of trading currency which has garnered an increasing interest from traders from around the world, in all levels of experience. CreditEUbank offers traders a safe, user-friendly and secure platform to trade from, that is packed with innovative features and focuses on guiding traders to make better investment decisions. Some of these features include technical analysis tools, risk management and advanced charts, to name a few. This review of CreditEUbank’s service offering focuses on how the company can help traders improve their trading skills, by the use of features such as educational resources, alongside other service features and legal considerations that are put in place to protect the safety of your trading experience.

Expanding Your Knowledge with CreditEUbank’s Online Resources

If you are interested in achieving your investment goals, you’ll be delighted to know that CreditEUbank offers its clients one-on-one meetings with an account manager to make sure they have professional guidance. CreditEUbank also provides its clients with a trading plans that are personalized to their individual needs based on their level of experience. Less experienced clients who wish to “test the waters” before jumping in, can start by opening a demo account that will allow them practice and improve their asset trading skills without the risk of losing money. CreditEUbank offers its clients three types of account tiers: silver plan, VIP Gold, and VIP platinum.

Each account tier provides services that are meant to assist traders with anticipating and reacting to market fluctuations. These services include market updates, sessions with a cryptocurrency specialist and access to an account manager. What sets each account tier apart is the frequency of the services provided by each account, allowing traders to choose their account tier according to how often they would like to receive expert guidance and market updates. CreditEUbank’s updates help traders gain a better understanding of financial markets and the different economic factors can impact their investments. They will also help traders expand their knowledge and proficiency with cryptocurrencies, banking, capital markets, and finance general.

CreditEUbank also offers Leverage. Here’s how it works:

One of the best features that CreditEUbank offers to its users is Leverage. They provide traders leverage with a ratio of 1:100, which enables traders to borrow a funding source for the capital they need to further expand their asset portfolio. This is an important tool that traders may use for to increase their Return on Investment. Here’s an example: Let’s say a trader plans to buy a $100,000 position in a trade. The trader in this case would only be required to pay 1% of the total amount, while CreditEUbank will pay the remainder. This kind of leverage allows traders to earn the same amount of profit even if the price of the traded asset increases and has the potential to act as a profit multiplier. Leverage is the perfect method for traders who wish to take advantage of trading cryptocurrencies without having to invest large sums of money.

Terms, Conditions and Privacy on the CreditEUbank Platform

Opening an account on CreditEUbank is free of charge, and the platform is a safe and secure environment for your funds, trading and investing. The service is PIPEDA compliant (Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act) for traders that reside in Canada. Once completing the account sign up process, CreditEUbank will receive copies of your personal information and will retain a copy of the information for as long as you continue to use their services. The company will, within its legal right, retain a copy of your personal information for a period of 30 days after closing your account in order to help resolve other, unforeseen issues that may or may not arise.

Owned and operated by CreditEUbank LTD, the CreditEUbank platform provides traders with a wide scope of financial analysis tools such as analysis reports, updates and market news. Individuals who are 18 years of age or older can open an account with CreditEUbank, after reading and consenting to the company’s terms and conditions and privacy policies. Every trader is personally responsible for any and all transactions that take place in thier account, regardless of earnings or losses. To open an account, a minimum deposit of $250 is required. When it comes to withdrawal orders, these will require traders to fill out required documentation that is put in place to ensure the security of client funds and information. CreditEUbank has the right to remove access to its platform from any user who violates the terms, conditions and privacy policy listed in this platform. This will include discontinuation of services any open transactions.