2020 may have been riddled with recession and a pandemic. But in 2021, the world will start to look beyond the coronavirus.

There are so many things to look forward to - the beginning of the electric vehicle era, decisive action against climate change, a string of high-profile IPOs, the ramifications of Brexit, economic recovery across the world, continuing backlash against Big Tech, and mass inoculations against COVID-19.



How well-acquainted are you with the business and finance trends expected to dominate the new year?

Let's find out!

Kick the year off with a bang! Tesla is (finally) set to enter the Indian electric vehicle market this year. With which model is it expected to debut? 2021 is set to be a year for big-ticket IPOs. Speaking of which, Flipkart is set to go public in the US in 2021. Walmart is expected to sell ___ to raise around ___ with this offering, making it the biggest IPO for an Indian company overseas. In 2021, nations will meet for the first time since the Paris Agreement came into effect. This will be the 26th United Nations Climate Change conference and is scheduled to be held in Glasgow, Scotland. What is the name of this Conference? Bitcoin has continued to surge into the new year, currently sitting above $35,000. According to JP Morgan Chase, what could Bitcoin's value be in the not-so-distant future? Several antitrust lawsuits were initiated against Big Tech firms in 2020 by regulators around the world. What does the FTC lawsuit against Facebook in the US seek to achieve? The Brexit trade deal came into effect on January 1st 2021. While the deal may have been more or less finalised, expect Brexit to remain a theme in European trade and politics in 2021. Which EU student programme will the UK leave this year? Blackstone may exit its largest PE investment in India this year in a potentially $3bn deal. Which company is Blackstone expected to exit? The Dollar is predicted to remain weak well into 2021. When the Federal Reserve announced last year that it would stop inflation-targeting and allow interest rates to remain in near-zero levels for a long time, the move erased the Dollar's yield advantage over other currencies. True or False? We'd be remiss if we didn't wrap up with COVID (pun intended!). While the worst of the pandemic can be expected to be over relatively soon, the coronavirus will inadvertently be a major theme of 2021. Case in point: Barely five days into the new year, X announced a national lockdown in light of a surge in reported cases. Identify X. And finally, the vaccine that we have been waiting for with bated breath. As of January 6th 2021, which country leads the world when it comes to % of citizens vaccinated (more than 14% of its population)?

FIN.

So how did you fare? Subscribe to TRANSFIN. E-O-D to be updated when the next Quiz goes live.