Representational Image

Key Highlights 'Ongoing liquidity-driven rally to lead to bubbles in markets' 'Many cryptocurrencies have turned to zero in the recent past' 'Remain long dollar as there could be problems by late 2021 or early 2022'

The ongoing bitcoin rally has turned many critics into believers. But American investor Jim Rogers remains unfazed. ‘I have never bought any cryptocurrency. I wish I had bought a Bitcoin. Obviously, I wish I had. But many cryptocurrencies have disappeared and gone to zero’, said the author of Street Smarts – Adventures on the Road and in the Markets, to ET NOW. Jim Rogers believed that bitcoin was in bubble territory. While admitting that cryptocurrencies had yielded great returns in recent times, Jim Rogers expressed intent to stay away from bitcoin.

Dollar As A Safe Haven?

Jim Rogers continued to remain long dollar and saw the ongoing dollar correction as cyclical process. However, his reasons were markedly difficult. ‘Reason I own dollar is because I expect there to be problems later this year or next year. And when there are problems, people look for a safe haven. Now the US dollar is not a safe haven but people think it is and that is why I own dollars. People are not going to buy Euro or Pound or Sterling or other currencies. That’s why I own dollars. Dollar is not sound. America is the largest debt-ridden nation in the history of the world, but people think it is (safe)’, reasoned Jim Rogers.

2021: Year Of Commodities

Commodities could see a sharp revival in 2021, according to Jim Rogers who picked out Agriculture, Silver, Gold, Oil and energy as his major decadal bets. He also confirmed that he would add more silver to his portfolio this year. Jim Rogers cautioned that tricky times are likely for global markets and economy going forward.

‘Bubble Developing In Markets’

The liquidity-driven rally in global markets would lead to bubbles developing in stock market valuations and rise in debt as the central banks across the world continue to power markets, cautioned Jim Rogers who picked out Apple, Amazon, Google, Tencent and Samsung as some of the stocks that are turning into bubbles. However, Jim Rogers insisted that the rally can continue for a while as there was no complete bubble yet in the markets.