$2.2 Billion Notional in BTC Options Set to Expire on Friday, Bitcoin Contango Has Returned

According to data from Skew Analytics, more than 55,000 bitcoin options contracts worth $2.2 billion will expire on Friday. Statistics further show, as far as options are concerned, Deribit captures the lion’s share of contracts with 48,469 bitcoin options contracts ($1.95 billion notional) set to expire.

55K in Bitcoin Option Set to Expire, Deribit Carries $1.95 Billion Notional

Insights from Deribit indicate the exchange has a “large expiry coming up tomorrow as 48,469 BTC option contracts (USD 1.95b notional) expire and 307,558 ETH options (USD 877m notional).”

Deribit Insights notes that “‘max pain’ for BTC is USD 50k and ETH USD 3k.” Deribit has also launched a new August expiry and July futures will be launched on May 28, 2021.

The derivatives exchange further notes that “Contango has returned with annualised yields up to 8.5% for BTC and 10% for ETH,” and “perpetual funding positive again as well.” The Deribit Implied Volatility Index (DVOL) “ decreased to (still elevated) level of 110-115.”

Last Friday, Deribit’s Insights’ Twitter account tweeted about the 48 hours in ethereum (ETH) options. “19/5 Short gamma+vega positions forced closed in explosive spot volatility. Fast market pricing surged Implied vol >350%; Realized way higher,” the exchange noted at the time. “But on 20/5 while BTC Options were calm, ETH Option flows saw large Straddle buyers pre-empting a big move.”

Five days later on May 26, Skew Analytics wrote that as far as ETH volatility is concerned “current market volatility is back on par with [the] 2017 cycle.”

What do you think about the 55k worth of bitcoin options set to expire on Friday? Let us know what you think about this subject in the comments section below.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons, deribit, Skew.com,

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not a direct offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or a recommendation or endorsement of any products, services, or companies. Bitcoin.com does not provide investment, tax, legal, or accounting advice. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.