Bitcoin Pizza Day: The Cryptocurrency Holiday for the Global Market

The cryptocurrency world has celebrated the 11th Anniversary of Bitcoin Pizza Day on May 22, 2021.

Pizza, being one of the most favorite dishes around the world, has made a prominent status in the cryptocurrency world as well. It has successfully reached such an international stature that the cryptocurrency market celebrates the annual Bitcoin Pizza Day on May 22. This year’s cryptocurrency holiday marked the 11th Anniversary of the first-ever Bitcoin transaction based on Papa John’s pizzas in 2010. Let’s catch up on how Bitcoin Pizza Day was initiated and what is the current price of those pizzas.

History of the Bitcoin Pizza Day

Jeremy Sturdivant was a regular 19-year old California student who suddenly received a request on a Bitcointalk chat forum stating that he could have an opportunity to receive 10,000 Bitcoins in exchange for ordering two large Papa John’s pizzas to a 28 years old resident in Florida, Laszlo Hanyecz. The Florida man, Laszlo was a Bitcoin pioneer who mentioned in that request that he would like two large pizzas with normal toppings— onions, peppers, sausage, mushrooms, tomatoes, pepperoni without any weird fish toppings. He also mentioned the reason for ordering two large pizzas— he preferred to nibble the leftovers on the next day.

Jeremy calculated that for those 10,000 Bitcoins, he would receive $41, which would be enough to cover his travel expense with his girlfriend. Thus, he accepted the request and sent two large Papa John’s pizzas— cheese and supreme. This marked the first-ever virtual transaction of any cryptocurrency and the day turned out to be the historic one.

But, Laszlo had to wait for two days to receive the delivery from Papa John’s, which lead some active contributors to ask him whether he was still hungry. He continuously used Bitcoins to order pizzas through this forum and was thankful to those who had successfully ordered his favorite pizzas regularly.

What is the worth of these two Bitcoin Pizzas in 2021?

Those two historical Papa John’s pizzas have gradually turned out to be the most expensive pizzas worldwide. Initially, at the time of the transaction in 2010, the value was 10,000 Bitcoins for $41. In this current cryptocurrency scenario, the price has reached $63,000, making two pizzas worth $630 million. Though the cryptocurrency market is still volatile, there was a high probability that Jeremy could have been a millionaire in 2021.

Laszlo Hanyecz became the first person to purchase a pizza over the Lightning Network while paying only 0.00649 Bitcoins in 2018. This particular popular cryptocurrency holiday has instigated a crypto-influencer, Anthony Pompliano, to launch a new initiative, Bitcoin Pizza, to help in funding research and development of Bitcoins. He announced that his brand would cover 10 cities where the first lot of pizzas would be delivered on the Bitcoin Pizza Day in 2021 from May 22 to May 29.