Personal Finance Miami's First Bitcoin Conference Coming To Wynwood June 4-5 After being postponed last year because of COVID-19, Bitcoin 2021 has moved from Los Angeles to Miami. Reply

After being postponed last year because of COVID-19, Bitcoin 2021 has moved from Los Angeles to Miami. (Shutterstock)

MIAMI, FL — Miami's Wynwood Arts District will welcome thousands of visitors and fintech industry leaders for the largest Bitcoin event in the history of cryptocurrency June 4-5 at Wynwood's Mana Convention Center.



The event was originally scheduled to take place last year in Los Angeles, but it was postponed because of the COVID-19 pandemic, according to a news release from the Wynwood Business Improvement District. Bitcoin 2021 features keynote speakers such as Twitter's CEO Jack Dorsey and Miami's Mayor Francis Suarez like CEO of Twitter, Jack Dorsey, and City of Miami's Mayor Francis Suarez.

As "South Florida's hub for arts, technology and innovation," Wynwood is the ideal setting for such an event, Wynwood BID said. "Wynwood's tech scene has grown exponentially in the past decade and being selected to host the largest Bitcoin conference to date solidifies the neighborhood's evolution into South Florida's hub for artists and innovators," according to Albert Garcia, chairman and co-founder of the Wynwood BID. "Wynwood's residents and businesses have shown their resiliency in the face of this pandemic, and we are ready to safely welcome back visitors for the first major in-person event in the last 16 months. Conference attendees will enjoy the unique, open-air offerings of the Wynwood Arts District — from our colorful streets to our internationally recognized culinary and brewery scene."

The relocation of the Bitcoin 2021 Conference from Los Angeles to Miami builds on the news of the growing number of tech and financial companies moving to Wynwood including venture capital funds Founders Fund and Atomic, start-up OpenStore, audio streaming giant Spotify, and PayPal's former CEO's latest fintech venture, Nirvana, Wynwood BID said. After being postponed last year due to COVID-19 safety concerns, the Bitcoin 2021 Conference will take over the six-acre Mana Convention Center, bringing together keynote speakers that in addition to Mayor Suarez and Dorsey, include cryptocurrency leaders, notable national elected officials and enthusiasts to celebrate one of the world's fast-growing technologies.

"We are incredibly grateful for the warm welcome the City of Miami and Wynwood has offered our growing community," Pat Riley, creative director of BTC Inc., organizer of Bitcoin 2021 Conference, said. "We are excited to tap into the local ecosystem and the area's brilliant art scene to give our attendees a taste of Wynwood and the wonderful opportunities the neighborhood has to offer innovators." Staying true to the neighborhood's character, organizers and one of its local partners, BitBasel, have commissioned local artists to create a 10-foot mural that showcases the history of currency, its evolution through time and the impact of digital currency has had in the past couple of years. The community mural will be displayed outside the Mana Convention Center from June 3-4.