GTA 6 Updates: Grand Theft Auto 6 is rumoured to have a feature of working stock market, brokerages and crypto currencies which can be earned in high-stakes missions.

With new rumours surfacing about the GTA have been a constant a new one did make its way and this time it’s the fictional use of crypto currencies in the game.

Rockstar Games is well known for depicting the American culture in its game, so this does not comes as a surprise if the developers are planning to aim for the biggest crazes in the world of finance and economics in GTA 6.

Whether or not the crypto will be the talk of the town for the players when the Rockstar finally decides to release the game is altogether another question.

Keeping in mind the GTA 6 is still under developing stages and with reports and rumours suggesting the game will be released somewhere in 2023, which is usually the time developers take to design games. Given it’s been almost a decade since the last entry in Rockstar’s acclaimed criminal series, fans gave started to grow impatient and are quickly onto any leaks or information given out by the studio.

GTA 6 Bitcoin-Like Cryptocurrency

Reputed gaming leaker Tom Henderson stated on Twitter that he “heard recently” the GTA 6 will feature crypto currency. Players will reportedly be able to earn “bitcon instead of cash” in some of the missions where the characters that seek to transfer large sums of money into untraceable accounts.

Henderson also claimed that the bitcons can be traded on the stock market. Of course Rockstar won’t be using real brands or companies in GTA so the currency will most likely be a generic version of the original crypto currencies.

That being said there are numerous fake GTA rumours floating online and this information should be taken by a pinch of a salt even though it comes from a trustworthy source.

Grand Theft Auto 6 is without a doubt under a lot of pressure to deliver. Not only does it need to follow up as the biggest entertainment product of all-time but also to match the bar of quality set by Red Dead Redemption 2.

GTA 6 is set to be in Vice City, but it’s going to be a long wait until Rocstar confirms the location of the game. So far the developer of the games have played a safe and closed hand so all we are hearing are rumours and assumptions regarding the game. Is crypto currency going to be featured on GTA 6 this is a question of time when Rockstar itself confirms nothing can be certain.

Share this: Twitter

Facebook

LinkedIn

Reddit

Tumblr

Pocket

WhatsApp

