Bitcoin nosedived by several percent following the eccentric billionaire’s latest social media post, which suggested he was cutting off ties to the virtual coin. On Friday morning, Mr Musk posted a meme which implied he was going through a ‘break up’ with Bitcoin.

The meme depicted a couple breaking up over excessive quoting of Linkin Park lyrics. Loading... Mr Musk shared the meme with the caption: “#Bitcoin” and an emoji depicting a broken heart. Bitcoin tanked from this week’s price high of $39,000 to a little under $36,000 in a matter of hours afterwards. Loading... Ethereum and Dogecoin also took a dive as a result of Mr Musk’s musings.

Ethereum dropped from $2,866 to $2,566 in a similar pattern to its main rival, Bitcoin, with the popular coins mimicking each other in price drops and surges. Loading... Similarly, Dogecoin’s price followed suit with drops and surges but had more volatile reactions. The recent price drop follows a warning from a prominent cryptocurrency trader who predicted the world’s most popular virtual coin could be plunging towards a “death cross”. Loading... Crypto trading and analyst company, Rekt Capital, said the economic death knell event could occur by the middle of this month unless Bitcoin’s price increases soon. Loading... READ MORE: ‘People are completely unaware’ they can claim thousands in tax relief Loading...

“The Death Cross occurs with some lag. So by the time it happens – a lot of downside will have already happened.” Now looking at current data, they said: “BTC is potentially on the cusp of a new Death Cross soon. Loading... “If BTC doesn’t increase in its price soon and the EMAs [exponential moving averages] continue at the same current pace…The Death Cross could happen sooner in mid-June 2021.”

Loading...

Read original article here

Denial of responsibility! Toysmatrix is an automatic aggregator around the global media. All the content are available free on Internet. We have just arranged it in one platform for educational purpose only. In each content, the hyperlink to the primary source is specified. All trademarks belong to their rightful owners, all materials to their authors. If you are the owner of the content and do not want us to publish your materials on our website, please contact us by email – [email protected]. The content will be deleted within 24 hours. Loading...