‘Blogger by Day, Trader by Night,’ Binance Runs Advertising Campaign in Major Ukrainian Cities

An advertising campaign across some of Ukraine’s most populous cities is now aiming to attract new traders to the world’s largest digital asset exchange, Binance. The Eastern European nation is known as a promising market and a leader in terms of cryptocurrency adoption.

Binance Ads Appear on Trains and Trolleys in Ukraine

Cryptocurrency exchange Binance has embarked on a mission to entice more Ukrainian traders to its world-leading coin trading platform. The company has recently launched a nationwide campaign showing Binance ads to the residents of the capital Kyiv and three of the country’s largest cities, Kharkiv, Odesa, and Lviv.

The organizers are now playing clips advertising Binance onboard the Intercity trains connecting these cities, Forklog reported. The ads run under the slogans “Blogger by Day, Trader by Night” and “Designer by Day, Trader by Night” on the trains’ infotainment systems, a video posted on Youtube shows. The ads call on crypto users among commuters to “Trust the Best” and “Join the Community.”

Binance advertisements have also appeared on public transport vehicles in the cities. A photo posted by the crypto news outlet shows a sticker reading “Today With a Trolley, Tomorrow With a Geliк” on a trolleybus branded with the Binance logo and colors. The text accompanies a picture of a luxury SUV, with Gelik being a slang word for the posh Mercedes-Benz G-Class (Geländewagen).

Not the First Crypto Signs in Bitcoin-Friendly Ukraine

This isn’t the first time Ukraine’s mass transit has displayed crypto-related messages. About two years ago, LED signs flashing the text “Bitcoin to the Moon” were spotted on a tramcar in the city of Vinnytsia, as Bitcoin.com News reported. The pro-bitcoin boards were mounted on a new Vin Way tram, manufactured locally by the Vinnytsia Transport Company.

Ukraine has emerged over the past few years as a crypto-friendly destination. Chainalysis ranked the country first among more than 150 nations in last year’s edition of its Global Crypto Adoption Index. The government in Kyiv has been working with the crypto industry on a project to issue a central bank digital currency, and Ukraine’s Public Radio recently broadcasted a podcast episode devoted to Bitcoin.

In 2019, the world’s largest crypto exchange by daily volume signed a memorandum of understanding with the Digital Transformation Ministry of Ukraine to cooperate on the establishment of a legal framework for cryptocurrencies and other digital assets. Last year, Binance offered users the option to deposit and withdraw fiat amounts in Ukrainian hryvnia using bank cards.

What do you think about Binance’s advertising campaign in Ukrainian cities? Tell us in the comments section below.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not a direct offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or a recommendation or endorsement of any products, services, or companies. Bitcoin.com does not provide investment, tax, legal, or accounting advice. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.