Healthcare Company Progresive Care Enables Bitcoin Payment for Rapid COVID-19 Tests

Florida-based personalized healthcare and technology firm Progressive Care, said that it was receiving bitcoin payment for its rapid COVD-19 testing services.

Bitcoin Payment Accepted for COVID-19 Tests

According to a press release on Friday, (June 4, 2021), Progressive Care announced that individuals can now pay with bitcoin for the company’s COVID-19 Rapid Testing Solutions. The BTC payment option is available across all its PharmcoRx locations.

Progressive Care’s decision to enable BTC payment coincides with the Bitcoin Conference holding in Miami, which will end on June 5, 2021. The number of attendees is expected to exceed 50,000, with the majority of participants being international visitors, according to the company.

With International attendees required to tender a COVID-19 negative report, the healthcare company believes that it would render helpful service to participants. Progressive Care took the initiative to create a QR code to make it easier for the participants to pay for their rapid COVID-19 tests in bitcoin and get results.

According to the company’s CEO and Chairman, Alan Jay Weisberg:

“PharmcoRx has tested over 10,000 people for COVID-19 to date, generating over one million dollars in testing revenues. We are happy to invite Bitcoin holders to our locations for all of their COVID-19 testing needs.”

Weisberg added;

“This is an excellent alternative for post-pandemic tourists coming into our communities from abroad. It also allows those with an alternative view of payment systems to get the testing services they require as we strive to maintain a shield against a fresh resurgence of this terrible virus.”

Meanwhile, PharmcoRx was the first pharmacy to accept bitcoin payment for its services back in 2018.

Indeed, 2021 has so far seen more companies enable the bitcoin payment option for their services. Even with BTC’s latest price performance and the FUD surrounding the crypto asset, more companies continue to embrace the flagship crypto as a payment method.

The U.S. Convenience store chain Sheetz in late May announced that it will start accepting BTC along with other crypto as payment methods in summer 2021.

Other companies that accept bitcoin payment include flexible workspace provider WeWork, car dealership company HGreg, luxury hotel group Kessler Collection, major wine seller Acker, among others.