The Winklevoss, co-founders of the Gemini exchange and the Winklevoss Capital Management family office, made statements at the 2021 Bitcoin Conference. Indeed, one of them was that the Fed is the biggest proponent of Bitcoin.

Indeed, the Bitcoin 2021 Conference takes place at the Mana Wynwood Convention Center in Miami, Florida (United States). With a large number of renowned attendees and featured speakers. Including politicians, regulators, celebrities, Bitcoin advocates, and investors in the crypto industry.

To name a few, we have former Congressman Ron Paul, Sen. Cynthia Lummis, MicroStrategy’s Michael Saylor, and Twitter’s Jack Dorsey. Also other prominent speakers include Floyd Mayweather Jr, the Winklevoss, Max Keizer and Warren Davidson.

So Miami Mayor Francis Suárez opened the 2021 Bitcoin Conference. And he said that he has been working to make Miami the “Bitcoin, Blockchain and Mining Capital of the World.”

“The days of a currency tied to a central bank are coming to an end. America will become a clean energy Bitcoin mining powerhouse. ‘

As a result, the conference drew attendees from as far away as China. In fact, Nathaniel Justin Yu from Bitmain said: “Attending the Bitcoin 2021 conference was a great way to meet others in the space.”

As a curious fact, the local firefighters had to limit the conference. Because it exceeded the capacity of people inside the Mana Wynwood Convention Center.

The Winklevoss: “Let’s get ready for the party”

To recall, the Winklevoss twins are among the early adopters of Bitcoin. Having bought considerable amounts in 2012. Ultimately, during the conference they indicated that they bought for the first time when the price of Bitcoin was around $ 100 / $ 130.

“We don’t plan to get rid of our portions anytime soon.”

Specifically, in remarks to Anthony Pompliano during the 2021 Bitcoin Conference, Tyler and Cameron Winklevoss, noted that they are still BTC hodlers. And they promised to stay at least until the price reaches $ 500,000.

With a market capitalization of $ 10 trillion, we believe that one Bitcoin will be worth $ 500,000. And we think that could happen within this decade. Definitely in the next five years. We are hodlers up to at least $ 500,000. “

On the market capitalization of Bitcoin

For their part, Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss argued that Bitcoin’s market capitalization will soon match that of gold. And, that by the end of 2022, the price of Bitcoin could reach $ 250,000.

“Our gold 2.0 thesis is that it disrupts gold, and that’s conservative. Obviously, Bitcoin is much more than gold. It is an open source project that continues to evolve and can do much more. “

In addition, Tyler Winklevoss added: “It can become the global reserve digital currency of the world, of the galaxy. When we get to Mars, what will be the currency on Mars? They will not be dollars, no, they will be Bitcoins ».

Why did Bitcoin skyrocket?

In this regard, Tyler argued that Bitcoin soared during COVID, because investors responded to the inflation risk created by governments mining trillions of dollars to keep the economy alive.

“Bitcoin is the best protection in the world against inflation, it is the hardest and most solid money.”

So all those people who would have been calling Bitcoin a fraud and were skeptical. They saw what was happening with the fiat regimes, the US dollar, which is the ultimate shit coin. ‘

“We wish we had bought earlier, we wish we had bought more, and everyone says that no matter how much they have. We will look back today and say, we wish we had bought at $ 35,000. “

Donate Bitcoin to Charity!

Notably, the trust, announced today at the 2021 Bitcoin Conference, has already raised 23 BTC in donations from Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss, skater Tony Hawk, and investor Bill Miller. That is enough to provide drinking water for about 11,000 people.

“Donating an investment in the future of money today is an investment in the future of clean and safe drinking water for years to come.”

Finally, are you ready for a world where Bitcoin is king? Leave your opinion in the comment box.

I say goodbye with this phrase from Michael Saylor: «I realized that yesterday I bought Bitcoin for the first time a year ago. So this is the end of my rookie year.

Did you like the content? Share it

Related