Benzinga

The S&P 500 traded slightly higher in a holiday-shortened trading week.

So-called meme stocks were once again the talk of the town on Wall Street as shares of AMC Entertainment, GameStop and other popular social media stocks skyrocketed on heavy trading volume. AMC took the opportunity to complete two capital raises over a three-day stretch but warned shareholders they could lose “all or a substantial portion” of their investment.

On Tuesday, online finance company SoFi Technologies gained more than 12% on its first day of trading after completing a merger with a special purpose acquisition company run by venture capital investor Chamath Palihapitiya. SoFi focuses on student loan refinancing, stock and cryptocurrency trading, mortgages, personal loans and wealth management services.

Bitcoin prices dropped below $37,000 on Friday after influential Tesla CEO Elon Musk tweeted a broken heart emoji along with the hashtag #Bitcoin. In May, Musk said Tesla would no longer be accepting Bitcoin as a payment method due to concerns over the negative environmental impact of Bitcoin mining.

More:'Meme' stocks back at center stage

More:Warren Buffett ups his stakes in Kroger, Verizon

On Friday, the Labor Department reported the U.S. economy added 559,000 jobs in May, sending the S&P 500 higher on the day. The 559,000 number fell short of economists' expectations of 671,000 jobs, but it marked a healthy recovery from just 266,000 jobs added in April.

DocuSign pops on earnings beat

Shares of e-signature specialist DocuSign gained more than 15% on Friday after the company’s first-quarter earnings numbers and forward guidance exceeded analyst expectations.

Earnings season continues with reports from Marvell Technology and Coupa Software on Monday, GameStop on Wednesday and Chewy on Thursday.

The 51.9% first-quarter earnings growth reported by S&P 500 companies up to this point marks the highest year-over-year growth rate for the index since its 55.4% growth in the first quarter of 2010, according to FactSet.

Economic numbers

Following the encouraging May jobs report, Wall Street will get more economic updates on Thursday when the European Central Bank releases its latest interest rate decision and accompanying commentary and the U.S. Labor Department releases its Consumer Price Index reading for the month of May.

Benzinga is a financial news and data company headquartered in Detroit.