Jigstack (STAK) Token Is Now Listed on Bitcoin.com Exchange

press release

PRESS RELEASE. Bitcoin.com Exchange is ecstatic to announce the listing of STAK, being available to trade on the 7th June 2021 at 10:00AM UTC. STAK was created by the Jigstack team, as the driver and as its governance token, incorporating a variety of specific DeFi protocols under one Jigstack umbrella. STAK will start trading with USDT as a pair.

What is Jigstack?

Jigstack is a decentralised autonomous organisation governing a portfolio of ethereum network assets and protocols. All assets deployed under the Jigstack brand are audited, non custodial, trusted and secure. By standardising a uniform quality with a high performance and resilient application, users all around the world can manage their finances with confidence and comfort, knowing their assets are safe and under their complete control.

What is the STAK token?

The term DAO stands for “decentralized autonomous organization” and can be described as an open-source blockchain protocol governed by a set of rules, created by its elected members, that automatically execute certain actions without the need for intermediaries. Software or governance improvement proposals, DAO direction, financial remuneration for service providers, vendor selection, etc. are all handled by community participation. DAO’s up to the current time have been focused on specific types of protocols, whether that be lending platforms, NFT art marketplaces, decentralized exchanges, or even leveraged yield farming platforms, all of these DAO’s are dealing with a single product.

Jigstack, on the other hand, aims to create a structured system for the DAO to exist within, utilizing $STAK as its governance token, incorporating a variety of specific DeFi protocols under one Jigstack umbrella. With strategic partnerships, such as Hedera Hashgraph, utilizing its protocols and creating its very own in-house flagship DeFi products, Jigstack positions itself to be the brand name for the DAO of DeFi.

Strong Endorsement

Danish Chaudhry, CEO of Bitcoin.com Exchange, shared his views on Jigstack, and their respective token STAK: “The team at Jigstack is run by some great developers in the sphere, and with their current and upcoming partnerships, the platform will be one to be reckoned with, even currently at its infancy. Their purpose is clear, to govern a range of high quality, revenue-generating network solutions on the Ethereum blockchain, and with plans for further interoperability, this is a project to keep an eye on.”

Chaudhry continues on by saying: “We’re very excited to see how Jigstack will continue to empower their vision to become the DAO for DeFi, and gain further outreach with our outstanding community at the exchange.”

Roby Weir, COO at Jigstack also expressed his enthusiasm with the listing: “We are excited to be listed on Bitcoin.com Exchange. Their team has been so helpful through the whole process and we are now looking forward to seeing Stak in more people’s hands.”

About Bitcoin.com Exchange

The mission of Bitcoin.com Exchange is to empower people from all over the world to trade cryptocurrencies with ease and confidence, from first-time traders to advanced trading professionals. With high liquidity, 24/7 multilingual support and dozens of trading pairs, complemented with a high level of security, we offer an attractive platform for trading any cryptocurrency. Within one year since launch, on average, our exchange has been visited by more than 500K active traders per month, and this number continues to grow as you read this sentence.

About Jigstack

Jigstack’s vision to bring back wholeness, simplicity, and understanding to the users. The Jigstack protocol aims to do this by developing a suite of productive flagship DeFi products that are all governed under a single Decentralized Autonomous Organization (DAO). Jigstack is positioned as the DAO of DeFi. The platform is the “One Stop Shop” for everything DeFi, and on top of that, it offers an interactive and interesting interface for users thereby allowing them to easily understand each product and how to interact with it, thus gaining exposure to the DeFi ecosystem in a safe and effective manner.

This is a press release. Readers should do their own due diligence before taking any actions related to the promoted company or any of its affiliates or services. Bitcoin.com is not responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in the press release.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons