Bitcoin.com Games Player Gets Lucky Big Time, Wins 5 BTC on Popular Online Slot

Player cashes out approximately $180,000 after winning it on Sun of Fortune: Hold the Jackpot!

Multiple Wins Result in a Total Bank of Over 5 BTC

The weather was perfect, with just enough sunshine to warm up one lucky player starting a gaming session on the newly released game, Sun of Fortune: Hold the Jackpot. Little did this player know that the day had much more in store for them: the most lavish fortunes they ever imagined.

With a range of game choices at Bitcoin.com Games, picking one is a matter of deciding whether you want to play for the biggest jackpots available, choose a game with the highest multiplier, or get busy chasing free spins on a game that offers plenty of bonuses.

Sun of Fortune – Hold the Jackpot is the newest release from the top gaming provider Wazdan

This lucky player happened to pick the newest release from one of the top gaming providers, Wazdan, and ended up winning a massive prize of approximately $180,000 in BTC over multiple rounds with bets of just a few hundred dollars. That’s enough to get you a Lambo, a Ferrari, or even a nice house or apartment of your choice!

Online casino games are widely known for dishing out extravagant amounts of money on even the smallest of bets. Sun of Fortune: Hold the Jackpot video slot on Bitcoin.com Games features over 1,400 multipliers that can be applied to players’ bets. With amazing graphics and great gameplay, this and many other slot games on the premium bitcoin casino offer big multipliers that can land players in the lap of extravagant fortunes.

Play Sun of Fortune: Hold the Jackpot now or check out other games with big jackpots that you can play exclusively on Bitcoin.com Games.

This is a promoted post. Learn more on how to reach our audience here. Read the disclaimer below.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not a direct offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or a recommendation or endorsement of any products, services, or companies. Bitcoin.com does not provide investment, tax, legal, or accounting advice. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.