Music Company Founded by Dr. Luke Enables Bitcoin Payments for Songwriters and Producers

Bitcoin mainstream adoption is not limited to celebrities endorsing the cryptocurrency via social media or interviews on TV. The music industry is also interested in joining the bandwagon, with an independent publishing company recently enabling bitcoin payments.

Bitcoin Adoption Comes in Response to the Requests of Prescription Songs Creators

According to Variety, Prescription Songs, founded by Dr. Luke (Lukasz Sebastián Gottwald), is now offering its roster of producers and songwriters the option to send payments in bitcoin (BTC). The feature is possible thanks to a partnership signed with crypto payments provider Bitpay.

Dr. Luke is a well-known hitmaker in the industry, whose publishing company’s catalog includes hits such as “Say So” by Doja Cat, “Don’t Start Now” by Dua Lipa, Katy Perry’s “Teenage Dream,” Kelly Clarkson’s “Since U Been Gone,” Miley Cyrus’ “Party In The U.S.A.,” “Moves Like Jagger” by Maroon 5, “Starboy” by The Weeknd and “Juice” by Lizzo.

In the words of Luke – who has been in the industry for over 20 years and not exempt from controversies – Prescription Songs’ creators have been actively asking him for a bitcoin payment option to be included:

Prescription Songs has always been an industry leader providing the best services to our songwriters, producers, and artists. Some of our creators asked about being paid in bitcoin, so we wanted to get ahead of the pack and provide that service. Bitpay is such a powerhouse in bitcoin. I’m excited to work with them in the music space.

It’s Not the First Crypto-Related Business Maneuver Made by Dr. Luke

Moreover, Sonny Singh, the chief commercial officer of Bitpay, believes that using BTC is only the “first step for the music industry to start working” in the blockchain sphere, praising the growing adoption of non-fungible tokens (NFTs):

Prescription Songs and Dr. Luke have always been innovative with their artists and songwriters, and giving them the option to get royalty payments in bitcoin shows once again how cutting edge they are.

But Dr. Luke has not been a stranger to the crypto and blockchain space at all. He was an early investor in the North America-based digital asset miner Blockcap.

What do you think about Prescription Songs adopting bitcoin payments? Let us know in the comments section below.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not a direct offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or a recommendation or endorsement of any products, services, or companies. Bitcoin.com does not provide investment, tax, legal, or accounting advice. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.