US Pharmacy Chain Pharmcorx Accepts Cryptocurrency for Fast Covid Testing

Progressive Care, a company that operates a chain of pharmacies in the United States, has announced it’s now accepting cryptocurrency for its Covid-19 rapid testing services. Customers are welcome to pay with bitcoin for the quick tests offered at its Pharmcorx locations using a dedicated QR code.

Pharmacies Offer Quick Covid Tests for Bitcoin

Florida-based Progressive Care Inc. announced in a press release that the company now accepts bitcoin (BTC) as payment for Covid-19 fast testing at its Pharmcorx locations. CEO Alan Jay Weisberg pointed out that the option will allow “those with an alternative view of payment systems to get the testing services they require.” Noting Progressive Care’s dedication to efforts against a resurgence of the virus, the executive stated:

We believe in the future of blockchain technologies, generally speaking, and we want to extend our market-leading services in rapid Covid-19 testing solutions to those who prefer to pay through Bitcoin.

Weisberg also emphasized that by accepting cryptocurrency the pharmacy chain offers “an excellent alternative for post-pandemic tourists coming into our communities from abroad.” Progressive Care took the decision to introduce the crypto payment option on the eve of the Bitcoin 2021 conference in Miami.

The forum has attracted more than 50,000 visitors, including many from abroad, to the Miami metropolitan area which is the company’s main market. Expecting a wave of customers who might require fast Covid testing, the company has generated a QR code for the bitcoin payments to cater to the needs of the cryptocurrency community.

Pharmcorx Invites Bitcoin Holders to Its Locations

Progressive Care claims that Pharmcorx was the first pharmacy to offer a crypto payment solution for its services some three years ago. The company says that the recently introduced payment option is expanding that commitment. Thus, Pharmcorx is increasing accessibility to PCR tests required by most international airlines as the coronavirus pandemic is still ongoing. Alan Weisberg also said:

We are happy to invite Bitcoin holders to our locations for all of their Covid-19 testing needs.

“Pharmcorx is invested in becoming the leading testing destination for Rapid Covid-19 Testing solutions for international airlines, Fortune 500 global entertainment companies, chain restaurants, corporate employers, and financial institutions,” the chief executive added. The pharmacy chain has already tested more than 10,000 people for Covid-19, earning over $1 million dollars in revenue.

Have you used cryptocurrency to pay for Covid-19 testing or other pharmacy services? Tell us in the comments section below.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not a direct offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or a recommendation or endorsement of any products, services, or companies. Bitcoin.com does not provide investment, tax, legal, or accounting advice. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.