CBS4's Jessica Vallejo shares the message from local mayors. Read more: https://cbsloc.al/3vUW0oo

Video Transcript

- This Morning. Crypto craze in the Magic City. Tens of thousands of visitors and locals converge on Wynwood this weekend for the largest Bitcoin conference in the history of cryptocurrency. It was day two of Bitcoin 2021. The gathering happening at the Monarch Convention Center. Since Friday we've seen a large influx of people into the area, and the excitement is palpable. CBS 4's, Jessica Vallejo, is in Wynwood with a look at the event.

JESSICA VALLEJO: Huge crowds taking over the Monarch Convention Center in Wynwood for Bitcoin 2021, the world's largest cryptocurrency conference.

- I think is the next big thing.

KYLE WEBER: At the highest level, it's going to be the future of the way that we pay one another.

- It's really a way for people to gain more control over their finances.

JESSICA VALLEJO: Now cryptocurrency can be complex, but here's the low down. Like gold, it can be invested. Bitcoin is a form of digital currency. There's no coin or dollar bill you can hold, and instead of a real wallet bitcoins is in a digital one accessed only through technology. Now if you're wondering how Bitcoin equates to US currency, right now one Bitcoin equals just over 37,000.

ALICE GORODETSKY: If you look at the conference, this is probably 90% men.

JESSICA VALLEJO: Alice Gorodetsky with Bitcoin of America says women should join a cause that benefits our future.

ALICE GORODETSKY: We're working with Mayor Suarez, the mayor of Miami to promote Miami as a cryptocurrency hub.

JESSICA VALLEJO: And present in the conference was Miami-Dade mayor Daniella Levine Cava who says with the help of Bitcoin she is hopeful it will propel Miami to be a leader in technology.

DANIELLA LEVINE CAVA: change.com announced their move to Miami and that will create 300 high paying jobs in this fast growing field, so we roll out the welcome mat to blockchain and to everybody else who wants to come.

Story continues

JESSICA VALLEJO: Other speakers included Kevin O'Leary, who you see on Shark Tank, and pro skateboarder and philanthropist Tony Hawk, who said he invested in Bitcoin to make his life easier.

- The idea that it was very fast. It was international.

JESSICA VALLEJO: Now if you're wondering can you turn physical money into cryptocurrency? Well, you can. Check out these Bitcoin ATMs. The maker coin stores has hundreds of Bitcoin ATMs across the nation.

DEREK MUHNEY: The average Bitcoin transaction takes less than 60 seconds. You insert your cash, it ask which wallet you'd like to send it to.

JESSICA VALLEJO: Jessica Vallejo, CBS 4, This Morning.