The man shooting the video wears a face mask, rimless glasses, and a white hard hat. He is traipsing near the entrance of a warehouse full to the brim with stacks of internet-connected machines sitting idle in half-darkness. As the man turns the camera around to showcase the machines, he says in Mandarin, “This is the stock for you. It hasn’t even started mining bitcoin.” The video, a sales pitch received via text by a cryptocurrency entrepreneur based in Switzerland, is just one of many similar messages that have been flowing out of China over the past two weeks.

WIRED UK This story originally appeared on WIRED UK.

China has long been the world’s epicenter of bitcoin mining, an energy-guzzling process to secure the cryptocurrency network and mint new bitcoins via specialized machines known as “mining rigs.” According to the University of Cambridge's Centre for Alternative Finance, over 65 percent of miners working on the bitcoin blockchain were based in China as of April 2021. But Chinese miners are now on tenterhooks following a top government official’s announcement, in a speech on May 21, that Beijing would start to “crackdown on bitcoin mining and trading behavior.”

Some miners reacted by scrambling to get rid of their rigs. According to Robert Van Kirk, managing director of US-based mining equipment marketplace Kaboomracks, Chinese miners are frantically “fire-selling” their equipment. Even if the crackdown announcement was not immediately translated into regulation, Van Kirk says, it appears that some miners have been put off by the hostility. “People mining there have realized that it may now be a riskier proposition to operate in China than they had anticipated,” he says. “They may be leaving, regardless of whatever determination is made.” As a consequence, Van Kirk says, used mining rigs are now being sold at a steep discount, in some cases as much as 40 percent lower than the usual price. This is higher than figures from a Reuters report this week, featuring an interview with Chinese mining machine manufacturer Canaan, which says that prices have fallen by 20 to 30 percent from early May.

Some of those selling their rigs, Van Kirk says, are likely entrepreneurs whose hosting contracts— which allow them to rent space for their machines in a large Chinese mining facility to take advantage of cheap energy and optimized infrastructure—were nearing their expiration dates. Because of amid the current uncertainty, these people might have resolved to sell their rigs rather than renewing their hosting deals.

Other miners are planning to take their business elsewhere, although it is hard to gauge how many miners are in the process of fleeing China. Right now, bitcoin’s hashrate—a rough proxy for the number of mining rigs connected to the network—is about 1.5 percent lower than it was on May 21, which suggests a large-scale exodus has not happened yet. (And even that decrease could be explained by unrelated reasons.) But in the long run, a shift in bitcoin mining’s geographic distribution might nevertheless be underway.

A source familiar with China’s bitcoin mining industry, speaking anonymously out of security concerns, describes panicked miners transporting their machines to neighboring Kazakhstan “overnight.” Those who could not afford a quick move, the source says, are planning to wind down their large mining farms and continue their mining in a more decentralized, inconspicuous fashion.

Didar Bekbauov is the founder of Kazakhstan-based Xive, a company that helps miners find space and convenient energy contracts in China. Bekbaouv says that, in the past fortnight, he has been receiving daily enquiries from representatives of Chinese miners looking to relocate to Kazakhstan. “These people are waiting for some clarification from the Chinese government, and they are looking for a plan B in case the government restricts or somehow bans mining altogether,” Bekbaouv says. Kazakhstan already accounts for over 6 percent of the world’s mining, and is endowed with cheap coal-produced energy and a relatively cold climate (which is great for miners who do not want to spend a fortune on cooling systems for their mining rigs). Another advantage is that it borders China, and especially the Xinjiang region, where over a third of China’s mining takes place. Kazakhstan might certainly increase its global share of mining—Bekbaouv estimates that it could maybe double its capacity—but it is possible that it will simply be used as a stopover destination for miners looking to rehome their precious rigs elsewhere. And that elsewhere, some say, is likely to be North America.