Alex Brammer, Deputy Business development president of US cryptocurrency company Luxor Tech said it was flooded with calls from Chinese miners within hours of the May 21 speech. “We were responding to calls from very large miners trying to find collocation space power across North America,” he says. We called and were asked, “Can we accommodate 20,000 machines in 14 days?” For example. The tone of the industry was very enthusiastic. ”

“Anecdotally, I’m a lot, a lot [miners] We will leave China within the next 30 to 60 or 90 days, “Bramer adds.

Van Kirk of Caboon Lux says non-Chinese entrepreneurs may be the first to succeed. “We have clients hosted in China, but we are Westerners who want to find abilities outside of China,” he says. “They are looking for something in the US or Canada.”

North America is not the only destination for the future. Parts of Northern Europe and Latin America are also considered. In general, some Chinese want to move their businesses to places that are “politically stable, have strong property rights, and have some existing, somewhat stable regulatory framework,” Brammer said. .. But you may find that the United States, already the second largest country in the world for Bitcoin mining, is particularly attractive.

That doesn’t mean it’s easy to move. On the logistics side, moving tens of thousands of machines from China to the United States is a very nightmare, Brammer said. A 25% tariff is levied on goods from China to the United States. Even after the mining machine has been unloaded from a private freighter or container ship, it will take some time to launch a new mining operation in North America. “Some of these [Chinese miners] “We want to buy a capacity of 500 MW,” says Brammer. He estimates that it takes about 12 to 24 months to build a large mining farm from scratch.

Edward Evenson, director of business development at Bitcoin mining company Brains, is even more optimistic. He states that most large miners only ship new machines from China-based manufacturers and have the resources to do so relatively quickly. “Small miners may not have the resources or connections, so you probably need to sell your machine,” says Evenson. “But for large businesses, we just move the machine to a more stable environment for mining.”

However, the big question is whether a panicked phone will lead to a real escape. In fact, most Chinese miners are now waiting for the government’s next move. “In our observations, Chinese miners, who are more risk-tolerant than Western miners, generally take a wait-and-see approach,” said Beijing-based venture capital firm Sino Global. Ian Whitkop, Vice President of Capital, said. “Most Chinese miners have experienced a similar cycle of news in the past. Most miners are regulated before relocating because the cost of migrating to a new location can be high. I expect to wait until it becomes clear. “

This is not the first time China has swung its fist with Bitcoin. But that harsh stance has never really sunk the country’s prosperous Bitcoin industry. “Whenever Bitcoin prices skyrocket and many speculative enthusiasts gather, the government makes one of these announcements,” says Evenson. “They have been around almost every year since 2013, or I’ve done it almost every other year. “