The momentum for Ethereum has been high over the past few days. The coin recorded an ATH above $3,523.59 yesterday and gave Bitcoin bulls the needed nudge to push the coin’s price to a new horizon. Together, Bitcoin and Ethereum dominate the $2.29 trillion global crypto market cap by 61.9%. A look at their current price movers will showcase which project contributes more to this combined cap weighting.

Bitcoin’s Retarded Growth Casts Doubt on its Market Leadership

For the past decade, Bitcoin has been seen as the undisputed leader of the global crypto market, wielding a massive influence over the space. This recognition is, however, fading away as the coin has not made any move close to its ATH of $64,500 for about 3 weeks now. For several reasons ranging from the Xinjiang mining zone blackout to fears of increased capital gains tax has contributed to keeping the premier cryptocurrency well below the $60,000 psychological level.

At the time of writing, BTC is down by 0.25% to $55612.2 according to data from CEX.IO price feeds.

The BTC-USD 4H Chart above shows the market is at a point of indecision with a likely overbearing influence from the bulls. A continuous push up across the signal line can send price toward the upper region of the Bollinger Band, in a bid to retest the $60,000 price levels. Should the bulls succeed in stabilizing price above this level, Bitcoin may regain buyers’ confidence to end Q2 at a price valuation of $80,000 per coin.

Ethereum Charting a New Course for itself

Ethereum has almost completely broken off its correlation with BTC and is now charting a new path for itself. Despite its current price of $3370.33 or 1.69% dip in the past 24 hours falling below its ATH above $3500, ETH is still outpacing BTC on the weekly gain level by 24.51% to 0.46% respectively.

The latest short squeeze on derivatives exchanges forced the new ATH, fueled by the growing institutional manager’s inflow into the asset. While these may be intermittent, investors are very bullish on the future prospect of the network per the EIP 1559 and ETH 2.0 potential rollout.

Story continues

Per the short term SMAs which ETH price is currently trading above, the bullish momentum is heightened, and while the coin has beaten its Q2 target of $3,000, a move toward the Q4 target above $4,900 is now being anticipated.

For both BTC and ETH, intermittent price reversals may be experienced before the targets are met.

Konstantin Anissimov, Executive Director at CEX.IO

This article was originally posted on FX Empire

More From FXEMPIRE: