No more soon™ as significant announcements will be made at CoinGeek Zurich.

The 7th CoinGeek Conference will take place from June 8-10, and you can expect there to be big announcements, giveaways, and opportunities that let you earn BSV—regardless if you are attending the conference in person or watching from home. That being said, you should sign up for the conference ASAP if you already haven’t.

Bitcoin SV (BSV) has reached an inflection point; the developments that have taken place in BSV over the last few months have made it possible for companies to innovate and launch new products and services at an unprecedented pace.

At CoinGeek Zurich, we will learn more about these developments and innovations, the businesses that have created them, and the market solutions that have been made possible because of them.

What’s new?

At the CoinGeek Zurich conference, there will be a virtual platform with many new features. There will be industry-specific virtual rooms that focus on particular sectors where Bitcoin solutions have picked up significant amounts of traction—iGaming, marketing technology, eSports, supply chain, banking, finance, business technology, health care data, regulation, and law are just a few of the industry-specific rooms you can expect to see on the CoinGeek Zurich virtual platform.

There will also be a variety of speakers from every corner of the world presenting, including Dr. Jürg R. Conzett, the founder and president at MoneyMuseum (Switzerland); Roger Wurzel, CEO of DLT Markets; Simon Kofe, the Minister for Justice, Communication & Foreign Affairs (Tuvalu); Ahmed Yousif, Digital Transformation Leader & Strategic Head in the Holy Makkah Municipality (Kingdom of Saudi Arabia); and Thomas Lee, the Managing Partner & Head of Research at Fundstrat Global Advisors.

Ignite the power of data

Bitcoin (BSV) is at a point where the solutions built on top of it are being implemented in multi-million and billion-dollar industries; CoinGeek Zurich will be the place where you can learn more about the current and future implementations of Bitcoin-based solutions in these sectors.

We are about one month away from the CoinGeek Zurich conference—a three-day event that you do not want to miss. Missing the event means that you will be missing out on exclusive giveaways, major announcements as they take place, as well as knowledge and insight from global experts and industry leaders that you cannot get anywhere else.

To make sure that you don’t end up in that position, you can head over to www.coingeekconference.com and sign up for complimentary virtual tickets to the conference now.

New to Bitcoin? Check out CoinGeek’s Bitcoin for Beginners section, the ultimate resource guide to learn more about Bitcoin—as originally envisioned by Satoshi Nakamoto—and blockchain.