LOS ANGELES--(BUSINESS WIRE)--BIGtoken® Inc., the first privacy focused, opt-in data marketplace where people own and monetize their data, will host a webinar on Thursday, May 13, 2021 to discuss bitcoin and corporate treasuries.

On August 11, 2020, MicroStrategy announced that it had made bitcoin its primary treasury reserve asset and purchased $250 million of bitcoin to hold in its treasury, instead of cash. Since then, MicroStrategy has announced multiple additional purchases of bitcoin. Both MicroStrategy’s shares and the price of bitcoin have risen by more than 5X. More importantly, MicroStrategy has led the charge for other publicly traded companies to leverage bitcoin as a treasury asset. In addition to providing resources for corporate treasuries at Hope.com, MicroStrategy hosted a “Bitcoin for Corporations” conference in February that attracted over 8,000 attendees. Four days after the conference, Tesla announced it had purchased $1.5 billion of bitcoin for its treasury. There’s even a website, BitcoinTreasuries.Org that lists 35 publicly traded companies that hold bitcoin in their treasury. But that’s less than 1% of the investable stocks listed on U.S. markets, per the Wilshire Index.

So why don’t the other 99% of publicly traded companies own any bitcoin? What’s holding them back? What don’t they get? What other efforts are out there to educate companies about bitcoin? What’s the outlook for 2021 and beyond? And what impact will corporate treasuries have on the price of bitcoin?

Get those answers by joining BIGtoken CEO Lou Kerner, crypto evangelist Jay Gould, and experts Jeff Ramson and American HODL on May 13 for a discussion on the future of bitcoin and corporate treasuries.

Who: Lou Kerner, Jay Gould, Jeff Ramson, American HODL

What: Bitcoin Treasury: Hedging Against the Future

MicroStrategy’s influence on bitcoin’s growing price values

Reasons why only 1% of publicly traded companies own bitcoin

How MicroStrategy’s efforts to educate companies about bitcoin opened the eyes of many corporate leaders

Corporate treasuries future impact on bitcoin’s price

When: May 13, 2021 at 1:00 p.m. ET / 10:00 a.m. PT

Where: Sign up for the webinar via Zoom HERE!

Jeff Ramson

Jeff Ramson is the Founder and CEO of PCG Advisory Inc., an investor relations and strategic advisory firm. 25 years of Wall Street experience, investing in and raising money for emerging public and private companies in various stages of development has given Jeff a unique insight into the needs and challenges of today's micro and small-cap companies. Through investor relations, traditional communications and multimedia content marketing, Jeff has helped hundreds of companies to communicate each of their stories accurately and effectively with the goal of maximizing exposure to current and potential stakeholders.

American HODL

American HODL is a longtime hodler and bitcoin proponent.

About BIGtoken

BIGtoken® believes that data privacy is a human right. BIGtoken is the first privacy focused, opt-in data marketplace where people own and monetize their data. Through a transparent platform and consumer reward system, BIG offers users choice, transparency, and compensation for their anonymized data. Participating consumers earn rewards and advertisers and media companies get access to insights from compliant first-party data for marketing and media activation. For more information on BIGtoken, visit bigtoken.com.

Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information:

This news release contains "forward-looking statements'' made pursuant to the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements relate to future, not past, events and may often be identified by words such as "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "believe," "seek" or "will." Forward-looking statements by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain. Specific risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements include risks inherent in our business, and our need for future capital. Actual results may differ materially from the results anticipated in these forward-looking statements. Additional information on potential factors that could affect our results and other risks and uncertainties are detailed from time to time in BIGtoken’s periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements.