Bitcoin ATM Near Me: Find Bitcoin ATM Locations Nearby

©Shutterstock.com

How can I find a Bitcoin ATM near me? Use the map and information below to help.

About Bitcoin ATMs

Bitcoin ATMs are popping up around the world. They make it easy to buy and sell Bitcoins, as well as exchange them for cash. Users need to only follow the prompts for buying or selling, scan their wallet QR code, insert their payment and get a receipt.

Of the many types of Bitcoin ATMs, the most common only permit you buy Bitcoin, although some do also allow you to sell.

Bitcoin ATMs usually have a withdrawal limit between $1,000 and $10,000.

Bitcoin ATM Locations

There are nearly 7,000 Bitcoin ATMs available around the world . If you use cryptocurrency other than Bitcoin, there are nearly 20,000 crypto ATMs. You can use this map or the Google map below to locate the one closest to you, along with information about each. Be aware, however, that not all Bitcoin ATMs may be licensed and legally operating.

More From Your Money

Bitcoin ATM Fees

The most common downside of using a Bitcoin ATM is the fees. Most Bitcoin ATMs charge a fee of 7% to 15% of your transaction.

Are Bitcoin ATMs Safe?

Generally speaking, Bitcoin ATMs are safe – as long as they follow the Bitcoin procedure. This means that you have to scan your QR wallet code, and the payment must show as accepted. As long as this occurs, the tokens are sent to your wallet, and all is well.

As Bitcoin runs on blockchain technology, it is next to impossible to either fake or hack. This means that there is a much lower risk from a Bitcoin ATM than there is with a traditional one.

View Sources Our in-house research team and on-site financial experts work together to create content that’s accurate, impartial, and up to date. We fact-check every single statistic, quote and fact using trusted primary resources to make sure the information we provide is correct. You can learn more about GOBankingRates’ processes and standards in our editorial policy. ATMIA. "Ultimate Guide on How to Use a Bitcoin ATM in 2020."

Coin ATM Radar. "Bitcoin ATM Map."