Student Coin Now Offers STC Staking - Will It Change the Future of the Digital Economy?

sponsored

Investors can now stake STC, the utility token powering the Student Coin ecosystem, and earn up to 13% APY. Showing the amazing potential of the community backing the project, over 1,000,000,000 tokens were staked in less than 12 hours after STC staking was launched.

STC Now Offers Staking, Much More to Come

Student Coin, a platform that allows users to easily design, create, and manage personal, corporate, NFT, and DeFi tokens, launched staking on May 6th and was immediately welcomed with great demand. In fact, over 1,000,000,000 tokens were staked in less than 12 hours after STC staking went live.

Staking can be done directly via the STC Wallet, where holders can now choose between a 30 days, 90 days, and 180 days staking pools with additional STC-based token mining program. When you stake your STC tokens, you can earn up to 13% APY, and mine 10 additional STC-based tokens. The first two tokens to be airdropped for the mining stakers are Smart Marketing Token ($SMT), and Smart Software Token ($SST).

In addition to staking, the STC Wallet is designed to be a powerful tool for holders. Announcements and news about STC will be shared on the app, as well as STC weekly insights – like where wallet users are able to see the total number of STC users. Voting for future development of the project is also an option, and the community’s first vote was for STC to be listed on Bitcoin.com Exchange.

Development Continues on STC Exchange, STC Terminal, and STC App

In April 2021 the Student Coin team ended the initial STC token sale 9 days before the planned date. This was due to the fact that they sold all STC tokens there were dedicated to the Launchpad. Each token is now worth over $0.03, giving the project a total valuation more than $300 million, and the trading volume is greater than $1.3 million per day, according to CoinMarketCap.

The detailed Student Coin Roadmap shows that by the end of 2021, the team plans to develop and implement more major parts in the ecosystem. These include the STC Exchange by Q3 2021, STC Terminal where everyone will be able to create their token there in Q3 2021, and launching the full version of the STC App in November 2021. This will be done alongside listing the token on major crypto exchanges. STC is already live on Uniswap, Waves Exchange, Bithumb Global, and CoinTiger. The token will also be added to Coinsbit on 12 May 2021, Bitcoin.com Exchange and P2PB2B on 13 May, and ProBit on 15 May.

This impressive pace of development is possible due to the strong team behind Student Coin, which consists of 44 people from 12 countries. The public can learn much about these people on the team page, for example the Student Coin founder and CEO, Wojciech Podobas, is the author of 2 books on cryptocurrencies and advanced technical analysis. Additionally, the impressive Student Coin Advisory Board consists of PhDs, university professors, and entrepreneurs, and it is also transparent to the public here.

This is a sponsored post. Learn how to reach our audience here. Read disclaimer below.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not a direct offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or a recommendation or endorsement of any products, services, or companies. Bitcoin.com does not provide investment, tax, legal, or accounting advice. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.