ATLANTA, June 4, 2021 /PRNewswire/ -- Ernst & Young LLP (EY US) today announced that Brandon Mintz, President and CEO of Bitcoin Depot®, the largest and fastest growing cryptocurrency ATM network, was named an Entrepreneur Of The Year® 2021 Southeast Award finalist. Now in its 35th year, the Entrepreneur Of The Year program honors unstoppable business leaders whose ambition, ingenuity, and courage shines in the face of adversity.

Mintz was selected by a panel of independent judges. Award winners will be announced during a special virtual celebration on July 29, 2021, where they will become lifetime members of an esteemed community of Entrepreneur Of The Year alumni from around the world.

Entrepreneur Of The Year is one of the preeminent competitive award programs for entrepreneurs and leaders of high-growth companies. The nominees are evaluated based on nine criteria: entrepreneurial leadership, talent management, degree of difficulty, financial performance, societal impact, company values, originality, innovation, and future plans.

The Bitcoin Depot® ATM network gives users the opportunity to exchange cash or credit cards online for cryptocurrency, allowing for simple, in-person exchanges that give users immediate buying power. The brand currently operates nearly 3,000 ATMs across the world and expects to see 200% growth in 2021.

"It is an honor to be recognized as an Entrepreneur Of The Year finalist," said Mintz. "Leading Bitcoin Depot® to its tremendous success over the last difficult year would not have been possible without the team I surround myself with. They have worked tirelessly to achieve our tremendous growth and I expect even more progress through the rest of this year."

Since its launch, the Entrepreneur Of The Year program has expanded to recognize business leaders in more than 145 cities in over 60 countries around the world. Regional award winners are eligible for consideration for the Entrepreneur Of The Year National Awards, to be announced in November 2021 at the Strategic Growth Forum®, one of the nation's most prestigious gatherings of high-growth, market-leading companies. The Entrepreneur Of The Year National Overall Award winner will then move on to compete for the EY World Entrepreneur Of The Year™ Award in June 2022.

For more information about Bitcoin Depot®, or to find a full list of bitcoin ATM locations, visit www.bitcoindepot.com.

Sponsors

Founded and produced by Ernst & Young LLP, the Entrepreneur Of The Year Awards are nationally sponsored by SAP America.

In the Southeast, sponsors also include Premium sponsors Cresa, King & Spalding LLP and PNC Bank; and Supporting sponsor Donnelly Financial Solutions.

About Bitcoin Depot®

Bitcoin Depot® is a cryptocurrency ATM network based in Atlanta, Georgia. It is the fastest growing multi-cryptocurrency ATM network in the world. The Bitcoin Depot® mission is to provide the most secure, convenient, customer-service-oriented, and fastest cryptocurrency transactions, ultimately opening up the cryptocurrency market to the masses. The strong network of nearly 3,000 cryptocurrency ATMs enables users to buy Bitcoin, Litecoin, and Ethereum instantly across North America. Learn more at www.bitcoindepot.com .

About Entrepreneur of the Year ®

Entrepreneur Of The Year® is the world's most prestigious business awards program for unstoppable entrepreneurs. These visionary leaders deliver innovation, growth and prosperity that transform our world. The program engages entrepreneurs with insights and experiences that foster growth. It connects them with their peers to strengthen entrepreneurship around the world. Entrepreneur Of The Year is the first and only truly global awards program of its kind. It celebrates entrepreneurs through regional and national awards programs in more than 145 cities in over 60 countries. National Overall winners go on to compete for the EY World Entrepreneur Of The Year™ title. ey.com/us/eoy

About EY Private

As Advisors to the ambitious™, EY Private professionals possess the experience and passion to support private businesses and their owners in unlocking the full potential of their ambitions. EY Private teams offer distinct insights born from the long EY history of working with business owners and entrepreneurs. These teams support the full spectrum of private enterprises including private capital managers and investors and the portfolio businesses they fund, business owners, family businesses, family offices and entrepreneurs. Visit ey.com/us/private

About EY

EY exists to build a better working world, helping create long-term value for clients, people and society and build trust in the capital markets.

Enabled by data and technology, diverse EY teams in over 150 countries provide trust through assurance and help clients grow, transform and operate.

Working across assurance, consulting, law, strategy, tax and transactions, EY teams ask better questions to find new answers for the complex issues facing our world today.

EY refers to the global organization, and may refer to one or more, of the member firms of Ernst & Young Global Limited, each of which is a separate legal entity. Ernst & Young Global Limited, a UK company limited by guarantee, does not provide services to clients. Information about how EY collects and uses personal data and a description of the rights individuals have under data protection legislation are available via ey.com/privacy.

EY member firms do not practice law where prohibited by local laws. For more information about our organization, please visit ey.com .

Contact:

Lindsey Harrison

6307301808

[email protected]

SOURCE Bitcoin Depot