Get our money-saving tips and top offers direct to your inbox with the Mirror Money newsletter Invalid Email Something went wrong, please try again later. Sign up Thank you for subscribing We have more newsletters Show me See our privacy notice

The founder of a crypto platform whose company held £97million of customers’ cash at the time of his death spent an “eye-popping” amount funding his own lavish lifestyle before he died, it has been claimed.

It was also heard how Canadian Bitcoin investor Gerald Cotten was in business with a white-collar criminal before his sudden death, aged 30, while on honeymoon in India in 2018.

Cotton was the founder of cryptocurrency trading platform Quadriga CX, which was previously accused of keeping his death a secret for a month - before later declaring it was bankrupt.

After his death, the firm claimed he was the only person who had the passwords needed to access investors' funds - sparking speculation that he may have faked his death.

Cotten died in December 2018 due to complications from Crohn's disease while traveling to India - but investors have called on his body to be exhumed to prove his death.

(Image: Passaic County Jail)

Quadriga CX owed approximately 76,000 people around $137million (£97million in current exchange rates) at the time of its collapse, with an investigation into its demise still ongoing by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police and the FBI.

Speaking on to the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation for its A Death in Cryptoland podcast, one investor - who identified only as QCX-INT - claims to have spent months investigating Cotten and Quadriga CX before passing his intel onto Canadian and US authorities.

It isn’t clear how much of his own investigation forms part of the main probe into the crypto firm.

QCX-INT told the podcast: “He couldn't control himself, by the looks of things, and blew just an absolutely eye-popping amount of money.”

The surviving business partner of Cotton, Michael Patryn, was also flagged in the podcast, which heard how he changed his name at least twice over the years and was previously convicted of crimes in the US.

He was convicted in 2005 for his role in an identity theft ring and was sentenced to 18 months in prison before being deported back to Canada.

Patryn says he had no knowledge of Cotten's dealings and left Quadriga CX in 2016.

The death of Cotten came four days after he completed a will, which left all of his assets to his wife, Jennifer Robertson - who also claims she has no knowledge of his business activities.

His will included £6.3million ($9million) in real estate, a Lexus, Cessna plane and a yacht.

The Ontario Securities Commission ruled last year that the breakdown of the crypto firm was due to a Ponzi scheme - a type of fraudulent investing scam.

The report from the commission ruled that Cotten siphoned off assets for personal use, transferring about £14million (C$24 million) to himself and his wife between May 2016 and January 2018.

Around £20million (C$34 million) was recovered by the bankruptcy trustee and paid to clients.

The Daily Mail reports that assets worth about £7million (C$12million) were recovered from Ms Robertson, while Cotten returned about £5.8million (C$10million) to Quadriga in the months before his death.