BITCOIN 2021, "the biggest Bitcoin event in history" is set to take place in Miami and more than 20,000 people are expected to attend.

It comes after the market's slow recovery from plummeting in May 2021 after hitting record highs.

🚀 Follow our cyptocurrency live blog for the very latest news on Bitcoin, Dogecoin and market surges...

7 Bitcoin 2021 will be held in Miami Credit: Thomas Trutschel/photothek images UG

When is the Bitcoin 2021 conference?

The Bitcoin 2021 conference has been moved from Los Angeles to Miami.

The massive cryptocurrency conference is set to launch on June 4 and 5, 2021.

Organizers have promised it will be "the most unforgettable experience in Bitcoin history."

Who are the Bitcoin 2021 speakers?

A number of crypto-curious people are set to speak in the Bitcoin 2021 event.

Those are Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey, computer scientist Nick Szabo, entrepreneur Michael Saylor, Senator Cynthia Lummis, skater Tony Hawk and former Congressman Ron Paul.

Ron Paul

7 Former Congressman Ron Paul is one of the head speakers at the conference Credit: Getty

Former Congressman Ron Paul is one of the guest speakers of the conference.

He has served as the US Representative for Texas.

Even though he has retired, he continues to provide political commentary through The Ron Paul Liberty Report, a web show on YouTube.

Jack Dorsey

7 Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey is also the CEO and Chairman of Square Credit: Reuters

Twitter's CEO is another headline speaker at Bitcoin 2021.

Dorsey is also the CEO and Chairman of Square, a financial payments company.

Back in 2016, the 44-year-old entrepreneur gave nearly one-third of his Twitter shares to employees.

Nick Szabo

7 Computer scientist Nick Szabo is known for his research in digital contracts and digital currency Credit: YouTube

Computer scientist Szabo is also a speaker at the crypto event.

He is best known for his research in digital contracts and digital currency.

The concept of "smart contracts", a major feature of cryptocurrency was developed by Szabo.

Michael Saylor

7 Co-founder of MicroStrategy Michael Saylor is also a best-selling author Credit: Rex

Entrepreneur and business executive Saylor will be speaking at the Bitcoin conference.

He is the co-founder of MicroStrategy, a company that offers business intelligence, mobile software, and cloud-based services.

In 2012, he authored The Mobile Wave: How Mobile Intelligence Will Change Everything.

Cynthia Lummis

7 Senator Cynthia Lummis is the first woman to represent Wyoming in the Senate Credit: Getty

Cynthia Lummis is the junior senator from Wyoming, and the first woman to represent it in the Senate.

She currently serves on the Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee, the Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee, and the Environment and Public Works Committee.

Upon taking office in the Senate in 2021, she is the first senator to own cryptocurrency.

Tony Hawk

7 Skater Tony Hawk will be speaking at Bitcoin 2021 Credit: Getty

Skater Tony Hawk is the owner of the skateboard company Birdhouse.

In 1999, he famously landed a "900" skateboarding trick for the first time in competition in San Francisco.

In 2002, he launched the Tony Hawk Foundation to help build safe skateparks around the country.

Most read in Tech INCOMING! Apple quietly reveals SEVEN new iPhones 'coming THIS year' SOMETHING OUT THERE UFO report could come out any day after leak 'did not rule out aliens' SAM SPAM Geeks dress up as Samsung's new 'sexy Samantha' mascot for viral trend I-SNOOP Look out for this orange dot on your iPhone – someone is listening in SNEAK PEEK How to read Instagram DMs without the other person knowing TAP TIPS How to send lasers and other cool effects to your friends on iMessage

What happens at Bitcoin 2021?

The two-day cryptocurrency event at Wynwood’s Mana Convention Center is expected to feature special guests, BTC activations and "the chance to celebrate the world’s best technology with all of your internet friends IRL."

General tickets cost $1,500 and are already sold out.

Visitors who splashed $20,000 for a "whale pass" will get an extra day and various other perks such as Celebrity Suite tickets to Mayweather vs. Logan Paul fight and a Tony Hawk Meet-and-Greet Pass.