Since the start of the year, MARA has been trending as one of the top cryptocurrency-related stocks. While bitcoin surged, MARA rallied from $10 lows and reached highs of $50. Subsequently sitting in the $20 range, many investors are now questioning the value of the stock.

Marathon Digital overall is a highly successful crypto miner with its main focus on Bitcoin. In January 2021, the company began to show its true potential when it reported mining an astounding 50.04 Bitcoins. However, with the company’s expansions still on the way, the fuse was lit when the company announced mining a whopping 162.1 Bitcoins just three months later valued at over $5 million. The hyped-up crypto frenzy was what sent MARA soaring to all-time highs.

Elon Musk whiplash

Following Elon Musk’s announcement that Tesla will no longer accept Bitcoin as a payment method for vehicles, we saw Bitcoin break into new recent lows to $45,000. According to him, Bitcoin is bad for the climate. Musk further expressed his concern stating that the increasing use of fossil fuels for Bitcoin mining and transactions will be detrimental to our environment.

“Tesla will not be selling Bitcoin and we intend to use it for transactions as soon as mining transitions to more sustainable energy. We are also looking at other cryptocurrencies that use less than %1 of Bitcoin’s energy per transaction” he added.

Needless to say, the market completely overreacted consequently causing Bitcoin to sink over 10%. Shares of Tesla and MARA reacted likewise.

MARA investors took their profits and waited to see how far the stock would fall. Overall they were not impressed with Bitcoin’s sideways movement over the past two months as a break of 60k was highly anticipated. As soon as Bitcoin recovers and breaks through the 60k barrier, Investors will feel safer buying shares of MARA at these prices.

When this happens, a potential short-squeeze and fear of missing out will cause a massive surge in the share price. Current share prices would be an absolute steal. Additionally, another push to $50 and beyond on high volume could signal a strong uptrend towards a $100 target.

Marathon Digital’s growth is far from over. It may just be getting started.

We believe that MARA’s current share does not reflect what the company is worth.

MARA company’s outlook

In the first quarter of 2022, the company expects to have over 100,000 miners deployed. This would allow them to mine 55-60 Bitcoins per day once expansions are finished. After doing the math, the company could be looking at a monthly revenue of nearly $100 million, assuming the price of Bitcoin surpasses 55k and remains over.

It is a bit difficult to say where Bitcoin will be in a month let alone the next year taking into consideration the sometimes erratic price action of cryptocurrencies, however, Managing Partner and the head of research at Fundstrat Global Advisors Tom Lee has recently increased his Bitcoin price target from $100,000 to $125,000 despite the recent bizarre turnaround by Elon Musk.

Bitcoin hitting these prices would be massive for the crypto space and companies like Marathon Digital would immensely benefit. It is safe to say that Mara is looking good for the long term. Though to an extent, the price of the stock follows the performance of Bitcoin. If Bitcoin continues to do well, MARA will inevitably follow in its footsteps.

Disclosure: Cho Research was not compensated by Marathon Digital to publish “Marathon Digital Make A Comeback Following Bitcoin Correction? ” Though Cho Research does use the research dollars it

generates from other clients of our research service to fund market research

reports such as this. This document is not produced in conjunction with a

security offering and is not an offering to purchase securities. This report

does not consider individual circumstances and does not take into consideration

individual investor preferences. Recipients of this report should consult

professionals around their personal situation, including taxation. Statements

within this report may constitute forward-looking statements, these statements

involve many risk factors and general uncertainties around the business,

industry, and macroeconomic environment. Investors need to be aware of the high

degree of risk in micro capitalization equities, cryptocurrencies, crypto assets.

Independent equity research isn’t regulated by the SECand operates separately from more conventional sell-side equity research. Thepublication of independent equity research is unregulated and rules pertainingto published independent equity research are covered under “freedom of thepress” with legal case precedent taken all the way to theN.Y. Supreme Court to guard against libel based claims or claims of lossrelating to the publication of a report on a company. Any copyright claimrelating to infringement is covered under fair use of copyrighted materials. Sincethe use of material was derived into a separate form of analysis without anysubstantial content derived from any third-party no copyright claim can bepursued under common law. To discuss investment risk or to consider the riskspertaining to any securities it is recommended to consult a registeredfinancial advisor. To understand independent research it’s encouraged to readthis published article on independent equityresearch to become more familiar with industry standard practices and therelative value of independent equity research versus brokerage research andnews media.Cho Research, its subsidiaries, and employees may open along/short equity position at future date from the data of publication of thereport. The price per share and trading volume of subject company and companiesreferenced in this report may fluctuate and Cho Research is not liable forthese inherent market fluctuations. The past performance of this investment isnot indicative of the future performance, no returns are guaranteed, and a lossof capital may occur. Certain transactions, such as those involving futures,options, and other derivatives, can result in substantial risk and are notsuitable for all investors.