TORONTO--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Personas Social Incorporated (TSX.V: PRSN) (the “Company” or “Personas”) is pleased to announce the launch of its Bitcoin payment system.

The Company is proud to announce that it has deployed and is currently accepting bitcoin payments for the purchase of content on its Peeks Social platform. Peeks Bitcoin payments system is a proprietary system that allows the use of bitcoin for purchases on the Peeks platform. Included in the Company’s Bitcoin service is an identity verification service that requires users to provide valid ID to withdraw funds converted from Bitcoin. The identity verification service provides “at-the-counter” ID verification, by requiring users to submit photo ID and proof of address to enable funds withdrawals. The service uses a variety of third-party services to validate ID, exclude users from sanctioned countries and perform background checks on users withdrawing money from the service. The Company has already processed several thousands of dollars of Bitcoin transactions.

The Company has received requests from online merchants to use its Bitcoin Payment service and is exploring the potential of providing payment processing services to online merchants.

Forward Looking Statements

This press release includes statements that may constitute "forward-looking" statements, usually containing the words "believe," "estimate," "project," "expect", "plan", "intend", "anticipates", "projects", "potential" or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements inherently involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are statements that are not historical facts. There can be no assurance that such statements will prove to be accurate and actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the Company’s expectations are risks detailed from time to time in the filings made by the Company with securities regulations. Forward-looking statements contained in this news release are expressly qualified by this cautionary statement. The forward-looking statements contained in this news release are made as of the date of this news release and the Company will update or revise publicly any of the included forward-looking statements as expressly required by Canadian securities law.

Neither the TSX Venture Exchange nor its Regulation Services Provider (as that term is defined in the policies of the TSX Venture Exchange) has reviewed or accepts responsibility for the adequacy or accuracy of this Release.