Microsoft Is Surveying Its Xbox Users About Adding a Bitcoin Payment Option to the Store

The tech giant seems to be changing its stance on being more friendly with the cryptocurrency sphere amid the current hype. Microsoft has been asking its Xbox gaming console users about the possibility of implementing payment methods, such as bitcoin.

The Poll Is the First of Its Kind Released by the Tech Giant With Crypto Questions

According to a post in Reddit, a user reported that Microsoft started to show polls with the topic “Payment Options,” surveying people with questions such as how they pay for their things in Xbox.

One of the items asks Xbox users about their thoughts on the current range of options regarding the payment options available. However, the poll then puts out the following question:

Which of these other payment methods would you like to use on Xbox (select all that apply)?

Among the answers, “pay with bitcoin” (BTC) is one of Microsoft’s alternatives to the users. The survey concludes with a question that inquiries people about if they have ever decided not to purchase something from Xbox “because your preferred payment method was not available.”

Microsoft Still Flirts With Crypto-Related Ventures

Interestingly, such a poll comes as a surprise for the Xbox gaming community, but even more for the crypto users. During an interview with CNN in February 2021, Brad Smith, Microsoft’s president, said the tech giant had not discussed bitcoin-related topics in their meetings.

However, he told the anchor, Julia Chatterley, that “if we change our investment policy on bitcoin, Julia, you’ll be the first, well, at least the second to know.” Chatterley then recognized she inquired him about bitcoin because of Tesla’s recent maneuver on investing $1.5 billion in BTC.

Still, Microsoft has not been entirely oblivious to the latest technological developments in the crypto industry.

The tech giant patented last year a cryptocurrency mining system that leverages human activities, including brain waves and body heat, when performing online tasks such as using search engines, chatbots, and reading ads.

What do you think about this surprising poll released by Microsoft? Let us know in the comments section below.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not a direct offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or a recommendation or endorsement of any products, services, or companies. Bitcoin.com does not provide investment, tax, legal, or accounting advice. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.