Paris Hilton 'Very, Very Excited' About Bitcoin — Confirms She Is a Long-Term Crypto Investor

Paris Hilton says she is “very, very excited” about bitcoin, stating that “It’s definitely the future.” Besides confirming that she is a long-term bitcoin investor, the Hilton heiress put laser eyes on her social media profile picture and talked about her upcoming non-fungible token (NFT) projects.

Paris Hilton Says Bitcoin Is ‘Definitely the Future’

Hilton heiress Paris Hilton talked about bitcoin and her upcoming NFT projects in an interview with CNBC last week. A great-granddaughter of Conrad Hilton, the founder of Hilton Hotels, Paris is often dubbed the “original influencer.” While she is a media personality, socialite, businesswoman, model, singer, actress, and DJ, many people say that she is “famous for being famous.”

“I’ve always loved to be an innovator and I did my first NFT in March of 2020 and it won the NFT Charity Award, the best one of the year, so that was exciting and now to see it just blow up in the past couple months has been so exciting,” she began. Hilton was then asked, “Does that mean you’re an investor in bitcoin?” She replied:

Yes. I’m very, very excited about that as well. It’s definitely the future.

She was further asked, “Have you been in bitcoin for a while?” Hilton simply replied, “Yes.”

The heiress also subsequently changed her social media profile picture to include laser eyes. The laser eyes meme has swept through the bitcoin community since February with the underlying meaning that anyone donning the eyes is laser-focused on bitcoin’s price rising to $100,000. Politicians, celebrities, and investors have partaken and put laser eyes on their profile images, including the pro-bitcoin U.S. Senator Cynthia Lummis and Shark Tank star Kevin O’Leary.

Following her interview, bitcoiners on social media enthusiastically welcomed Hilton to the community. Some Twitter users, however, questioned whether the heiress actually understood how the crypto works. Replying to a comment suggesting that Hilton understands bitcoin more than she does, financial writer Frances Coppola opined: “One of these days you will learn that filling your bags with bitcoin and understanding it are entirely different things. Paris Hilton has filled her bags, but whether she understands Bitcoin is unclear. My bags are empty precisely because I understand Bitcoin.”

Among those who welcomed Hilton embracing bitcoin was Microstrategy CEO Michael Saylor whose company has amassed about 91K BTC in its treasury so far. He tweeted to Hilton:

If you don’t understand laser eyes, you don’t understand bitcoin. Welcome to the team Paris Hilton.

The heiress responded: “Thank you, Michael. Excited to be a part of it.”

There were also questions raised on social media about when Hilton actually got into bitcoin. Popular television personality Max Keiser tweeted that he and his wife, Stacy Herbert, talked to Hilton several years ago about bitcoin, posting a picture of the three of them together as proof. He wrote that at a party in Soho, New York City, “We spoke with Paris Hilton extensively about bitcoin,” noting that she “has been orange pilled since at least 2018.” Besides Keiser, a number of people speculate that she might have been into cryptocurrency since 2015.

Hilton further talked about her upcoming NFT projects during the interview with CNBC. “I’ve been working together with some incredible artists and doing my first drop in a few weeks and then another one planned after that,” she explained.

“My first drop is about art,” she revealed. “I can’t really say much yet because it’s a surprise, but the first one will be about art and the second one will be about music and memorabilia. So it’s amazing that really the possibilities are endless with this.” Hilton further noted, “It’s something I created with another artist and it has to deal with female empowerment.”

What do you think about Paris Hilton being excited about bitcoin and hodling some for years? Let us know in the comments section below.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not a direct offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or a recommendation or endorsement of any products, services, or companies. Bitcoin.com does not provide investment, tax, legal, or accounting advice. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.