Myles Udland, Brian Sozzi, and Julie Hyman discuss the continued sell-off of Bitcoin as the cryptocurrency falls below $32,000 due to factors such as China and the U.S. Treasury making moves to tighten regulations.

Video Transcript

MYLES UDLAND: But we begin today with what we've seen in crypto over the weekend. As we mentioned right at the top, Bitcoin at this hour trading around $38,000. But with the move back towards $30,000, we've seen Bitcoin's gains from that all-time high just about cut in half.

Now we discussed last week, guys, the team over at Bespoke Investment Group noted that the average decline for Bitcoin within price cycles is about 48%-- or the median decline, I should say, is about 48% from peak to trough. Now throughout Bitcoin's history, that has been from $100 to $50. That's been from $600 to $300. The numbers have gotten bigger. The market cap gets bigger over time.

And I think, Julie, the question continues to be how much of an impact will a decline, a sustained or even a shorter term decline in the price of cryptocurrencies bleed over into risk markets, just given the dollar amounts now that are associated with some of these assets. And I think the last couple of weeks have shown that the answer is certainly not zero and something notably higher than that. Because the risk-on move we're seeing today in stocks seems, at least from my vantage point, to be kind of an in sympathy rally with the at least shorter term, more constructive action, let's call it, that we're seeing in the crypto complex this morning.

JULIE HYMAN: I mean, any given day, you can pick any reason you like for risk on or risk off, I suppose. That seems as good a reason as any. I mean, given the washout that we heard about in a lot of particularly smaller crypto investors who were investing on margin, borrowing on margin, investing that money into crypto, and then when they got caught on the downside got wiped out, it makes sense that you would see some spillover.

Story continues

What's also sort of fascinating to me is one of the buzzwords, as we've talked about, of the crypto bulls has been adoption, adoption, adoption, right? Are we going to see more adoption on the part of institutional investors? Institutions have been another buzzword of these folks. The problem now for those institutions is trying to get their arms around and offer advice on something which they're not really used to analyzing, right, you know, something without as fundamental a case and as a way to analyze. And so I think a lot of the Wall Street strategists are trying to figure out how to advise clients on this now that you do have that broader adoption.

And so when you have this confusion, you also have, I mean, what's already a volatile market, perhaps even more so, if investors who are used to getting sort of concrete advice on companies that make stuff, maybe, that they're sort of a little bit adrift maybe in this current environment.

BRIAN SOZZI: No, very important, Julie, that you mentioned adoption. I have a story right now on the Yahoo Finance home page. And I think, based on a new piece of research out of Goldman Sachs, specifically their Global Head of Digital Assets, Matthew McDermott, has flown a little bit under the radar so far this morning, but I expect he'll get more attention. He's saying Bitcoin is now considered an investable asset. In other words, saying Bitcoin is a new asset class. And you go deeper into this research note and McDermott is saying, the interest they're seeing from clients right now for Bitcoin other cryptos is getting more significant. And that's coming out of a Goldman Sachs. So I imagine it's also happening around the others in the investment banking community, which gives credence, are you reaching some form of short-term bottom here in cryptos?

JULIE HYMAN: Yeah. And on a related note, Brian, this is something you flagged for us this morning, also from Goldman Sachs, that Coinbase was initiated with a Buy rating at that firm. The price target is $306. Now not a lot of higher targets than that-- or I should say, there are a lot of higher targets in that. That's one of the lower targets, actually, for Coinbase. But the analyst says that, you know, obviously their future is tied to cryptocurrencies and how they're going to do. But among the ways to invest in crypto plays, Coinbase is sort of a blue chip way to do so.

So Sozz, I thought that was interesting, they're getting in here. You know, you tend to have, after companies debut, a little bit of time and then the banks start piling in with their calls. So Goldman, obviously a big one to make that kind of call.

MYLES UDLAND: Yeah. And I think the question for Coinbase is going to be is Coinbase-- I mean, if you read their prospectus, they say that all volatility, essentially all volatility in the crypto space ends up being a net positive for them because, in general, all else equal, that is going to increase the amount of trading that happens within the crypto space. And more trading is better for Coinbase. Though I think the way-- not I think-- if you look at how the stock has acted since it has come public, it has basically been a lever to play on the value of cryptocurrencies generally.

And whether-- and I think the question for Coinbase longer term-- and you kind of think about it this way also, you look at SIBO and ICE and the groups that are interactive brokers, [INAUDIBLE] so on and so forth, the groups that are levered to trading activity within the stock market, do they, by proxy, become levered bets on the value of stocks over time? And I'm not sure how the answer shakes out there. I think it's a little bit less correlated than Coinbase has been so far. But the challenge for them will, of course, be able to reach this kind of escape velocity, if we want to think about it that way, where their stock price is not subject to the whims of what happens with the price of various cryptocurrencies and they can fully establish themselves as an investable case, as a play that does not depend on the price.

But I think so far, at least in the company's public market history-- and they're wrapped up in a softer SPAC and direct listing IPO market as well, so they have those factors going against them at the same time-- but they have not, to this point, been able to make themselves trade out of step, let's call it, with the value of broad cryptocurren--