Editor's Note: With so much market volatility, stay on top of daily news! Get caught up in minutes with our speedy summary of today's must-read news and expert opinions. Sign up here!

(Kitco News) - Analysts and commentators are watching the bitcoin sell-off very closely it has been a big fall from grace (42% from the high). Some of the crypto supporters are holding through this time and some could call them investors that are willing to hold in the bad times. Traders are sometimes more in and out of the markets on a shorter-term basis and try and follow the flow slightly more. Whatever category you are in this has been a very interesting and volatile asset.

Societe Generale says that some individuals and companies are promoting bitcoin like it should be part of every portfolio. Some even allege that it is one of the most important assets a person could garner, but the firm is saying otherwise. Societe Generale says that bitcoin’s place in any portfolio is “highly contested,” and still recommends that traders devote most of their attention to precious metals like gold.

The report says says "It comes as no surprise that the place of bitcoin in any investment portfolio remains highly contested, precisely because of its erratic price movements". Alain Bokobza and Arthur Van Slooten said in a recent interview that investors should likely follow gold more often than they do BTC. While both assets are similar, they said that gold was a better stabilizer for one’s portfolio and would likely be less volatile.

The CEO of a gold mining company Barrick Gold believes cryptocurrencies can be made out of thin air while no one can just print new gold into existence. Mark Bristow (Barrick CEO) criticized the cryptocurrency space following the latest substantial price crash. He asserted that no one can just print gold, which was not the case with digital assets, and questioned their store of value status. He added, “Cryptocurrencies and the other competing options have forced us to realize we need to work harder to create a fungible [option that] allows every person in the world to use it to pay for things.”.

There is only a limited number of BTC in circulation and only a limited number can be mined. I think Bristow was talking about cryptocurrencies in general. It is a good point as gold has more history as a store of value but as the generations evolve and times change maybe bitcoin could keep up and change opinions.

The chart below illustrates the dramatic fall. At one stage the price was 50% lower and if you are a trader or investor that is a massive drop. The need to keep strict risk management rules has never been more prominent. New investors and traders could and probably have been burned by this recent move. It is important to know that gold is a very good alternative to fiat currencies and it is much less volatile. Portfolio diversification is very important and this move could help investors realize why.