Argentinean Central Bank Asks Local Banks for Information on Customers Who Deal With Cryptocurrencies

As cryptocurrencies keep gaining adoption in Argentina, there are discussions on how the national regulatory bodies should regulate the industry. The Central Bank of Argentina (BCRA) seems to have taken a step forward in making the picture clearer.

Banks Should Provide Data Such as National Identification Numbers and Home Addresses

According to Infobae, the BCRA asked domestic banks to forward them information about its customers who deal with bitcoin (BTC) and perform any other kind of crypto transactions.

The measure aims to evaluate whether the crypto market “should be required for an even bigger regulation or not.” Citing sources inside the central bank, Infobae details that the BCRA has sent an internal mail to the associated banks, requesting them the following data:

Information that allows identifying customers who have accounts for holding crypto assets or who have declared or are known to carry out purchase and/or sale cooperation and/or management of payments through/of crypto assets.

That said, the Argentinean central bank backs up its decision by saying that they have “functions of supervising” domestic payment systems.

Inside the email, the BCRA asks for the national identification numbers, home address, and account types of the individuals involved in crypto-related transactions. Moreover, the measure covers the bank accounts used exclusively to trade with cryptocurrencies.

Concerns Over Future ‘Excessive Regulations’

The central bank issued the following statement about the matter:

As part of the process, the banks were consulted to determine the volume and depth of the use or purchase of crypto assets. It is a common practice to ask banks for information on different topics of interest before proceeding with the elaboration of regulations.

Infobae claims that experts consulted by them have mixed opinions about the BCRA’s measure, with some considering it as a correct move, according to Ignacio Carballo, director of the Fintech Ecosystem of the University Católica Argentina:

The global phenomenon of cryptocurrencies, together with its benefits and potential risks for economic systems, is something that is currently being debated in all global organizations and forums. Since the genesis of every financial regulator must be to make decisions based on evidence, the study and proper monitoring of the crypto world becomes fundamental, just as the BCRA would be doing.

What are your thoughts on the latest move announced by the Argentinean central bank? Let us know in the comments section below.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not a direct offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or a recommendation or endorsement of any products, services, or companies. Bitcoin.com does not provide investment, tax, legal, or accounting advice. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.