The solar rooftop project covers an area of 56,000 m 2 , and will produce 10.6 GWh of clean energy annually, offsetting more than 7,000 metric tons of CO2 emissions.

UAE, Dubai : SirajPower, UAE’s leading distributed solar energy provider, announced today a major solar partnership with Al Shirawi Group, one of the largest industrial conglomerates in the GCC, spanning trading, industrial, distribution, contracting, and service industries. SirajPower has been engaged as a long-term partner starting with a significant 7 MWp solar rooftop installation for Emirates Printing Press in three of their plants, one of the region’s leading, high-quality press facilities in Dubai Industrial City (DIC) and Al Quoz.

Mohammed Abdulghaffar Hussain, Chairman of SirajPower, said: “We continue to take the lead in the local energy sector with another significant deal signed with Al Shirawi Group, a prominent local and regional market player. Over a very short period of time, many local conglomerates have joined our journey to a greener economy, and this further strengthens our position as the preferred solar partner for major UAE groups.

“The current momentum from these important established companies gives a strong message to the market as it showcases the private sector’s commitment to achieving national priorities. This also perfectly aligns with the UAE’s vision for the next 50 years. Together with our existing and new partners, we want to support our country in its next phase of development where clean energy plays a central role.”

Mohamed Al Shirawi, Chairman of Al Shirawi Group of Companies said: “We want to continue growing our core businesses more sustainably while contributing to UAE’s green economy. Choosing SirajPower as our green partner of choice to take us through this new exciting journey wasn’t a hard choice. SirajPower's impressive track record of successfully working with reputable UAE conglomerates from various industries such as Al Ghurair, Mir Hashem Khoory Group (MHK), Bin Dasmal Group, and Airlink International UAE played a key role in our decision.”

Al Shirawi Group was established over 50 years ago and is part of Oasis Investment company, the holding company. The group consists of 30 companies across various industries and employs more than 10,000 workers.

Send us your press releases to pressrelease.zawya@refinitiv.com

© Press Release 2021