Winner Cashes Out $160,000 from Bitcoin.com Games with a 13,870x Multiplier

Bitcoin.com Games gave this player 160,000 reasons to be happy this spring!

Lucky Player Bags Two Epic Wins Within Minutes

What started as a perfectly normal month of March for this player turned out to be a life-changing experience when they won, not one, but two big rounds of The Dog House Megaways slot on Bitcoin.com Games.

Starting off with a small bet of $22, the wheels of fortune started turning for the player when the reels started spinning in their favor, landing the player their first win of $17,600. A chunky 788x of the original bet amount!

A win like that could take anyone’s head for a spin, but little did the player know what the future had in store for them. As they kept spinning the reels of this one-of-a-kind Megaways slot, Lady Luck decided it was time to bring massive fortunes to the player. Only this time the bet was $11, and the win? $164,170.

A celebratory pause would ensue as the player gathers themselves back into a winner’s composure and spins the reels a few times before cashing out $160,000 from the crypto casino.



Online casino games are well-known for churning out massive amounts of money on the most unlikeliest of bets, no matter how small. The Dog House Megaways video slot on Bitcoin.com Games is loaded with over 100,000 ways that a player can win. With amazing graphics and great gameplay, this and many other slot games on the premium bitcoin casino offer big win multipliers that can land players in the lap of ludicrous fortunes.



Play The Dog House Megaways now or check out other games with big jackpots that you can exclusively play on Bitcoin.com Games.

This is a promoted post. Learn more on how to reach our audience here. Read disclaimer below.

Image Credits: Shutterstock, Pixabay, Wiki Commons

Disclaimer: This article is for informational purposes only. It is not a direct offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell, or a recommendation or endorsement of any products, services, or companies. Bitcoin.com does not provide investment, tax, legal, or accounting advice. Neither the company nor the author is responsible, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any content, goods or services mentioned in this article.