Eric Weinstein, managing director of Thiel Capital and host of the popular podcast The Portal, urged his followers over the weekend not to get caught up in Bitcoin’s (BTC) daily fluctuations. He seemed to feel that it was wiser to focus on the cryptocurrency’s ability to hedge against currency debasement at the hands of central banks.

Bitcoin and other “hard-money” assets like gold and silver could be sound alternatives to the “disguised actions” of central banks, Weinstein tweeted to his nearly 485,000 followers. “Figuring out how we hedge against central bankers printing and devaluing fiat currency remains our upcoming rendezvous with the market,” he said, adding:

"This is not investment advice. But it is a belief that central bankers through their disguised actions are a threat to all those who hold cash and its close equivalents. Look into BTC, XAU, CHF, XAG, etc."

He continued:

“I have no time frame to give you on central banking actions. I just see a group of people who get into trouble and reach for the same tool. Over and over. And there will always be such trouble until we confront and address the underlying crisis in growth and innovation.”

We will need to go short the talent, ethics and skill of macro economists, central bankers, investment bankers and financiers.



Gold isn’t perfect. Neither is BTC.



But we must beware the printing press and calls for relief, easing and stimulus are cries for transfer & dilution. — Eric Weinstein (@EricRWeinstein) April 25, 2021

When Weinstein tweeted the message, Bitcoin was trading at $48,662.20. It would eventually bottom around $47,000 before rebounding sharply to a price of $54,200 on Monday.

Bitcoin’s role as a deflationary hedge is disputed within mainstream investment circles, although there appears to be an acknowledgment that the digital asset is encroaching on gold’s market share. Bitcoin’s value has not only appreciated in dollar terms but also when priced in bullion. As Cointelegraph reported last month, BTC's price against gold increased nearly sevenfold between October 2020 and March 2021.

Weinstein previously described himself as “not a Bitcoiner,” adding that he has “contributed nothing to the vision of distributed computing.” However, he’s urged Bitcoiners to stop measuring their wealth in dollar terms and to instead focus on a higher goal. His views about the crumbling nature of fiat add credence to that view.