List Of Major Companies Accepting And Adopting Bitcoin Planning oi-Sneha Kulkarni

Despite the fact that we are just a few months into the year, Bitcoin has already had a remarkable 2021. Endorsements from well-known financial leaders increased institutional interest, and Tesla's $1.5 billion investment in Bitcoin have all helped to boost Bitcoin's credibility. Institutional investors, investment banks, such as Tesla, Square, and JPMorgan, have continued to support Bitcoin by including the commodity and associated companies in their portfolios.

Tesla

Tesla CEO Elon Musk announced a historic $1.5 billion investment in Bitcoin in February 2021, accounting for 8% of the company's $19.4 billion in cash and liquid assets.

Microsoft

Microsoft began accepting Bitcoin payments for applications, games, and other Windows content in 2014, including Windows Phone, Xbox Games, Xbox Music, Xbox Shops, and more.

BMW

Despite the fact that BMW has never been associated with Bitcoin on a corporate level, two BMW dealerships in England and Canada embrace Bitcoin for BMW transactions.

Square

Square recently made a $170 million investment in Bitcoin, which is a small sum relative to the other companies on this list, but it is noteworthy. Cash App, which was founded as a payment app to send and receive money, is now owned by Square. Cash App, on the other hand, now allows you to save and invest in Bitcoin.

JPMorgan

JPMorgan will launch a Bitcoin proxy stock fund called the "Cryptocurrency Exposure Basket." JPMorgan Chase is the first major bank to commit to the volatile cryptocurrency market.

Goldman Sachs

Goldman Sachs' private wealth management clients will soon be able to invest in bitcoin and other digital currencies. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) hired trader Justin Schmidt for a new bitcoin trading service earlier this month.

Expedia

Expedia, the online travel agency, has partnered with Coinbase to accept bitcoin as a form of payment.

Burger King

Burger King Venezuela declared in 2020 that it will embrace a variety of cryptocurrencies, including Bitcoin. This is done in partnership with Cryptobuyer, a startup that manages the conversion of cryptocurrencies to fiat currency.

Coca-Cola

Coca-Cola distributor Coca-Cola Amatil announced a collaboration with digital assets platform Centrapay to accept Bitcoin as a payment alternative in the Asia-Pacific region.

Pizza Hut

Another of the company's restaurant chains, Pizza Hut, has confirmed that Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies would be accepted in Venezuela. For this project, the company collaborated with Cryptobuyer.

Paypal

PayPal revealed in October 2020 that beginning in 2021, consumers in the United States will be able to purchase, sell, and retain a limited number of cryptocurrencies directly from their Cash or Cash Plus accounts.

Starbucks

Starbucks has stated that Bitcoin payments will be approved in the near future, but not explicitly until mid-2020. Last year, the company began experimenting with accepting Bitcoin payments via the Bakkt app.