A piece of advice we hear often about credit cards is to get one that offers great cash backs and loyalty points while making purchases. However, now credit card holders can use applications such as CRED to pay their bills and get rewarded handsomely for it. Talk about literally getting a bang for their buck! CRED is a platform meant for creditworthy individuals with a credit score of more than 750, and offers regular rewards and jackpots that are exclusive and never-heard-before. Members get CRED coins for paying their bills using CRED and they can use these coins for participating in unmatched jackpots or to make purchases from over 1800 cool brands available.

The member-only credit card bill payment platform will be launching its very first Mega Jackpot Week from 27th April to 3rd May to give members an opportunity to win big while they stay safe at home. Members can use their CRED coins to participate in the CRED Mega Jackpot Week with rewards such as Harley Davidson Fat Boys, Gold, brand-new iPhones for a decade, free flights for five years, a TATA Safari car, a complete home makeover and for the first time… A Bitcoin!

For many, a Bitcoin is a bit of a mystery in itself - a cryptocurrency that was rumoured to be invented by a person or group of people under the alias Satoshi Nakamoto in 2008. Bitcoin was set out to enable a new payment system that was completely digital and one that was controlled by Bitcoin users around the world, without central authorities or middlemen getting involved. In recent time, after Elon Musk mentioned on social media that bitcoin is a “good thing", the value of bitcoins rose significantly, making it a global currency. With a limited number of only about 18.7 million currently in existence, bitcoins are not easy to acquire. They can either be mined for free (completing "blocks'' of verified transactions and adding them to the blockchain) which is painstaking or bought at a premium. CRED in association with WazirX, India's most trusted Bitcoin and cryptocurrency exchange, will give one lucky member a once in a lifetime chance to win a bitcoin worth INR 40 Lakhs, today. Yes, you read it right! Simply by paying their credit card bills in a timely manner and earning CRED coins for the same, members stand a chance to win a bitcoin.

Watch the film:

Managing credit cards and making timely payments can be a mundane task but CRED makes it rewarding and also ensures you don’t miss a bill payment date and maintain a healthy credit score. Using CRED, members will get the best out of their credit card, every step of the way.

Subscribe to Mint Newsletters * Enter a valid email * Thank you for subscribing to our newsletter.