CBS4's Keith Jones spoke with Bitcoin Of America CEO Sonny Meraban.

Video Transcript

- Now at 7:00, sewage is in Biscayne Bay. A contractor was drilling near Northeast 4th Street and 1st Avenue and struck a 60 inch sewer pipe. Miami-Dade Water and Sewer Department workers were able to stop the spill, secure the site, and reroute the flows while the pipe was repaired. There is a no swim order in areas near the Giulia Tuttle Causeway, the Intracoastal Waterway, and Virginia Key Beach.

- Well, even if you're one of the many people who doesn't quite get the excitement over cryptocurrency, you've probably heard of Bitcoin, Dogecoin, and others.

- Proponents say it's part of the financial future, and efforts are underway to make it go mainstream. CBS 4's Keith Jones sat down today with the CEO of Bitcoin America, and he's live for us in Miami Beach with more. Keith.

KEITH JONES: Yeah, investors absolutely love cryptocurrency. They love buying and selling. It can be incredibly lucrative, also very volatile. And while it's hugely popular on main street, it's not really mainstream on Main Street. Retailers really haven't taken to cryptocurrency, but that could be changing because Bitcoin of America CEO met with Miami's man.

SONNY MERABAN: We actually had a conversation with Mayor Francis Suarez where we saw he wanted to bring Bitcoin and crypto to the city of Miami.

KEITH JONES: And so the CEO of Bitcoin of America, Sonny Meraban, is working on the city of Miami to expand its cryptocurrency footprint. But what is Bitcoin? It's actually a pretty simple concept.

SONNY MERABAN: It's a virtual currency, that's correct. It's complete virtual. Some people think you get a little gold coin. There's no gold coins. You know, it happens in app.

KEITH JONES: Purchased Bitcoin actually goes into a virtual wallet, which only the owner has access. You can transfer the virtual cash to retailers who accept crypto, and now Meraban is placing these Bitcoin ATMs all over South Florida.

Story continues

SONNY MERABAN: We've got about 40 probably, maybe closer to 50 in South Florida, and our goal is about 200. And we'd like to put about 100 of those in Miami.

KEITH JONES: The Bitcoin ATMs will start appearing in more and more gas stations, convenience stores, groceries, any high-foot traffic areas. And crypto is already in the Gable's.

CINDY FERREIRO: We're the first hotel in Miami to accept cryptocurrency as payment.

KEITH JONES: Cindy Ferreiro of the New Thesis Hotel on Miracle Mile, says they've had a handful of guest use crypto so far. And Miami-Dade County has already put together a cryptocurrency task force. It's an exploratory committee, designed to study crypto and its effects on South Florida. Thesis Hotel wanted to be ahead of the game.

CINDY FERREIRO: [INAUDIBLE] they're very big trendsetters and they know that this is a trend that's only going to get bigger. So definitely wanted to be ahead of the curve [INAUDIBLE] within the hospitality industry.

SONNY MERABAN: We just legitimately bought one Bitcoin.

KEITH JONES: And while there's a push for South Florida to evolve into a high-tech hub, Meraban says the future of Bitcoin and crypto is just around the corner.

SONNY MERABAN: The future is going to be a universal kiosk, where this machine is going to do everything. It's going to do bill-pay, it's going to do bye any kind of crypto that you like Bitcoin, Litecoin, Ethereum. You can also withdraw cash.

KEITH JONES: And the push to expand crypto here in South Florida, not just South Florida, but all over the country and even worldwide. There's a cryptocurrency conference happening here in South Florida next month, in which they're going to talk about marketing, obviously all the technology that goes into it, and hopefully get an education out there about expanding cryptocurrency. Live on Miami Beach, Keith Jones, CBS4 News.