





Share this Story: Warren Buffett's deputy isn't a fan of Bitcoin despite astronomical price surges

Warren Buffett's deputy isn't a fan of Bitcoin despite astronomical price surges Agree or not, research and knowledge are keys to success in the trading markets Photo by Pierre Borthiry / Unsplash

Reviews and recommendations are unbiased and products are independently selected. Postmedia may earn an affiliate commission from purchases made through links on this page.

Article content This article was created by StackCommerce. Postmedia may earn an affiliate commission from purchases made through our links on this page. “Disgusting,” he says. Charlie Munger, Warren Buffett’s deputy, together with the stock market mogul himself, feels bitcoin is “disgusting and contrary to the interests of civilization.” Of course, that’s just one (although we are sure there are a few others who think along the same lines) man’s opinion. Let’s face it. It’s hard to rail against the facts. In April of 2011 Bitcoin was valued at $1 USD. Fast forward to today and you have a cryptocurrency that, at the time of this writing, fetches over $54,000. Bottom line? Know what you’re getting into. We apologize, but this video has failed to load.

tap here to see other videos from our team. Try refreshing your browser, or Warren Buffett's deputy isn't a fan of Bitcoin despite astronomical price surges Back to video Do your research What are Buffett’s and Munger’s issues with cryptocurrency? Partially, they feel that the roots are a little sketchy, and who can blame them? It was, after all, the currency of the dark web, where so many nefarious undertakings were and are still brewing. Its volatility, its lack of substance are, to them, areas of concern. So take that advice as you will. Ultimately, it’s up to you to decide whether the investment will be worth it.

Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.

Article content Day trading As it pretty much says in its name, day trading involves transactions that take place within the same day. Whether that be in said cryptocurrency market, the regular stock market, or beyond, day trading can be a lucrative, dangerous, and stressful means of investing. Yes, rewards can be high, but just as easily, things can tailspin out of control. Day trading is not for the weak of heart, but if you’re informed and make wise decisions, it may have you ending up on easy street.

Share this article in your social network







Advertisement Story continues below This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.

In-depth reporting on the innovation economy from The Logic, brought to you in partnership with the Financial Post.

Financial Post Top Stories Sign up to receive the daily top stories from the Financial Post, a division of Postmedia Network Inc. Email Address There was an error, please provide a valid email address. Sign Up By clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300 Thanks for signing up! A welcome email is on its way. If you don't see it, please check your junk folder. The next issue of Financial Post Top Stories will soon be in your inbox. We encountered an issue signing you up. Please try again

Trending