Latest Crypto News: Litecoin, Dogecoin, Bitcoin, Ethereum Prices After A rally Planning oi-Sneha Kulkarni

Millennials are becoming more interested in cryptocurrency. A cryptocurrency is a form of digital currency that can be used to buy things on certain websites. Because of how unpredictable cryptocurrencies can be, not everybody accepts them. Unlike conventional money, the value of cryptocurrency is calculated by the market. Although Bitcoin remains stuck in a predictable range below Binance Coin, Cardano, Litecoin, and Chainlink have developed bullish trends, implying that they will continue to rise. - As the price of cryptocurrencies continues to fluctuate, let's take a closer look at what's going on in the crypto sector.

Litecoin

This week, Litecoin (LTC) prices soared by up to 35% to a one-year high versus Bitcoin (BTC), leading analysts to forecast further upside momentum for the remainder of the month.

Ether

Ethereum on Tuesday rose after slipping from record high and was seen trading at $4,070at the time of press.

Bitcoin

During the sell-off, the bitcoin price had dropped by more than 5% in the previous 24 hours. As of press time, it had recovered to just over $55,993.

Doge

DOGE most recently made a 10x rise in the last week, rallying to $0.74. On Tuesday, Doge was trading at $0.50. up 1.67% at the time of press.

Crypto Wallets

Cryptocurrency wallets, as well as account credentials from other apps like NordVPN, Telegram, Discord, and Steam, are being targeted in a new ransomware attack. Trend Micro, a cybersecurity software firm, discovered the latest information-stealing malware (also known as infostealer for short) dubbed "Panda."

On Sunday, the Winklevoss brothers' crypto exchange Gemini announced that Dogecoin holders could earn 2.5 percent APY via Gemini Earn.

China

The "DOGE killer" is a new digital token that is trending (and price-pumping) in Chinese cryptocurrency circles. The new SHIB token has blatantly appropriated the name of the Shiba Inu dog breed, whose logo has become synonymous with the joke cryptocurrency dogecoin.

South Korea

The Korea Federation of Banks has expressed concern about the rise in altcoin trading volumes across the country's crypto exchanges. The banking association has asked member banks to conduct an audit on the altcoins provided by their crypto exchange clients, according to a study published by The Korea Herald on Monday.

Nebraska

Nebraska legislators are working on a bill that would authorize state banks to provide cryptocurrency services.

Africa

A crypto exchange in Africa has reported $3.2 billion in transactions ahead of its global expansion.

Ellon Musk

Elon Musk has started a Twitter poll to see whether Tesla should consider dogecoin as a payment method.

For investment related articles, business news and mutual fund advise Allow Notifications

Story first published: Tuesday, May 11, 2021, 16:45 [IST]