Steven Hassan, PhD, is a licensed mental health counselor and author of The Cult of Trump. The opinions expressed in this commentary are his own.

One of the indelible images from the January 6 invasion of the US Capitol is of Jacob Chansley dressed in horns, a bearskin headdress, red, white and blue face paint, and carrying a spear. Chansley had been deeply affected by the relentless assertions of former President Donald Trump that the election was stolen. And yet Chansley's attorney recently announced that he is willing to testify against Trump at the impeachment trial. Chansley reportedly feels betrayed because no pardons were issued to protect him and other QAnon supporters who participated.

QAnon is often referred to in the media and by politicians as a conspiracy theory, but it is more than that. Conspiracy theories are encouraged and promoted, but QAnon is a political cult that recruits and indoctrinates primarily online. At its core, QAnon teaches that dozens of politicians and A-list celebrities work in tandem with governments around the globe to engage in child sex abuse. They also generally believe that the 2020 presidential election was rigged against Trump.

A change of loyalty such as Chansley's is one response cult members may have when promises made by their leaders are not fulfilled. Others who were not arrested may not face such dissonance. Because QAnon members are messaging constantly, many may continue to believe the conspiracy theories and blindly follow them.

I can personally relate. After a near fatal van crash due to sleep deprivation in 1976, I was deprogrammed from the Moonies (known by many as the Unification Church) and the influence of the movement's leader, Sun Myung Moon . Waking up from an authoritarian cult has motivated me for the last 45 years to help others understand mind control tactics and to free themselves. I was deceptively recruited and did not understand the systematic social influence processes that had been used on me (and I used on others) until my deprogramming got me to open my mind.

How had I been turned against my family, my religion, my country? How could I give blind allegiance to a malignant narcissist? I would have died on command or killed on command. I slept three to four hours each night and worked seven days a week for no pay.

Read More