Another of the main differences is that a digital currency backed by a central bank would have low volatility, compared to that exhibited by cryptocurrencies today. This is due, according to Professor Muñoz Cabanes, to the fact that while central banks ensure financial stability through monetary policies, in relation to the value of other currencies, Bitcoin is a volatile currency because it acts in an immature market, not backed and full of expectations. Although the economist points out that this may change the more the use of cryptocurrencies becomes popular.

Cryptocurrencies backed by corporations

It is also worth mentioning that digital currency projects not backed by central banks, but by corporations are subject to regulation, such as Libra, now Diem, the cryptocurrency project backed by Facebook. “There are other types of solutions that seek to combine the innovative functionalities found in cryptocurrency networks with greater guarantees for users,” says Español.

These types of currencies are backed by an asset reserve of the institution that issues them and can be less risky than cryptocurrencies as a means of payment. “However, we must bear in mind that, given the novelty of these proposals, the authorities are currently analyzing them and, where appropriate, adapting financial regulation to accommodate these types of solutions,” explains the BBVA economist.

Español also stresses that “these types of solutions, when they have a global reach and a large number of users, pose significant challenges to financial stability due to their systemic importance.”

Characteristics of digital currencies

In order to issue a digital currency backed by central banks, called by the acronym CBDC, the Bank for International Settlements (BIS) lists up to 14 characteristics that make this type of currency a platform that aligns with the financial stability objectives that govern international monetary institutions. The highlights of CBDCs, according to the BIS, are:

The conversion and the value will be the same as with physical money and volatility will be avoided

They will be accepted and available for all types of online and offline transactions 24/7

Its cost will be low and almost zero in the moments of creation and final distribution of the money

They will be a safe and resilient system at all times against possible cyberattacks, system failures or disruptions

They will be operable between different banking systems

They will be robust and legal currencies thanks to the support of a central bank

In search of primacy in digital currencies

The race for the leadership of digital currencies has already started and both Europe and China want to take the lead and prevent unregulated cryptocurrencies from being the main player in the world of digital payments. “These digital currencies respond to the interest on the part of central banks to stay updated to guarantee the fulfillment of their objectives and functions. Many central banks are investigating the impact of a CBDC issuance on the financial system, while others have opted for its issuance and are in the development phase. Such is the case of the Chinese central bank, whose digital currency DCEP is in the testing phase,” says Español.

The People’s Bank of China, the equivalent of the ECB in Europe, has been running tests of its digital currency since April with the help of four banks in the country. Given the strength that the two Asian technology giants, WeChat and Alipay have acquired in the digital payments environment, China wants to take control from now on, seeing how well these means of payment have worked in the country. Their aim is to have the digital yuan be fully operational by 2022. In the longer term, the Chinese government plans for its digital currency to replace its physical currency across the country.

At an international level, the Asian giant is looking towards a hypothetical scenario in which its digital yuan would become the world´s preferred currency. “The fact of being the first to launch your digital currency allows you to eliminate internal problems, such as ´black money,´ while increasing your fiscal efficiency, since tax payments would be immediate. It would also allow the speeding up of trade, because payments are instantaneous,” explains Muñoz, who underlines the importance that a currency of this type could have on international transactions. The convenience of this type of digital payment could act as a stimulus for rapid adoption by those involved.