TWELVE YEARS ago, on January 3rd 2009, a headline on the front page of the Times read: “Chancellor on brink of second bail-out for banks”—a reference to the British government’s efforts to save the country’s financial system from collapse. When Satoshi Nakamoto, the mysterious inventor of bitcoin, created the first 50 coins, now called the “genesis block”, he permanently embedded the date and that headline into the data. The hidden text was a digital battle cry. Mr Nakamoto had decided it was time for something new: a decentralised cryptocurrency, free from the control of governments and central banks.

The Economist Today Hand-picked stories, in your inbox A daily email with the best of our journalism Sign up

Mr Nakamoto has vanished from public view, but his invention has gained prominence—and lately has been soaring in value too. It first gained widespread attention in 2013 as a financial curiosity, when its price climbed above a then giddy-looking $400. In 2017, in a frenzy of speculation (and Google searches), the price spiked just shy of $20,000. It quickly plummeted. In December 2018 it sank to $3,200. As recently as October it was worth just $10,600. But then it began to climb again, passing its old peak on December 17th and ascending to a new high, above $34,000, on January 3rd. It fell back a bit the next day.

Over the years bitcoin has spawned an entire crypto-ecosystem, including lots of copycat currencies, such as Ethereum, a rival token, and Dogecoin, a joke digital coin; and several exchanges to trade cryptocurrencies, such as Mt. Gox, now defunct, and Coinbase, founded in 2012. Many have dismissed investing in it as a pursuit for those on the financial (or even legal) fringe.

But the cryptocurrency has minted a handful of bitcoin billionaires and scores of millionaires. Others are eager to join their ranks. Last week it was reported that Russell Okung, of the Carolina Panthers, would become the first player in America’s National Football League to be paid in bitcoin (he will get half his pay that way). The London Underground is plastered with advertisements wooing potential investors. And the latest surge seems to have been spurred by interest from the financial establishment, most of which long scorned it.