Bitcoin SV Virtual Meetup returns to the Americas on May 10

The Bitcoin SV community has never been stronger, with global interest in BSV and the Bitcoin SV protocol continuing to scale unbounded. Developers, entrepreneurs and stakeholders in the Americas are invited to attend the next big event in the Bitcoin SV calendar with Bitcoin Association’s Bitcoin SV Virtual Meetup, taking place on May 10.

The online-only event kicks off at 6 p.m. (EDT), a free event open to anyone via the online registration form at Bitcoin Association. Focused on the Americas region, the event brings together some of the industry’s leading speakers to look at the latest hot topics in the world of Bitcoin SV.

Save the date! Our next #BitcoinSV Virtual Meetup will be held next week on Monday, May 10! Our attention will turn to the Bitcoin SV ecosystem in the Americas and will feature our ​usual great line up of guest speakers! Register now: https://t.co/8zJB5MyvJu pic.twitter.com/iXJa1sLyST — Bitcoin Association (@BitcoinAssn) May 4, 2021

The webinar event is hosted by Connor Murray, co-founder and CEO of Britevue. Murray also works as a content specialist at the Bitcoin SV Academy. Connor will kickstart the event with opening remarks, before passing the baton to Xiaohui Liu of sCrypt.

Liu is slated to discuss Bitcoin Smart Contracts 2.0, with a look at how smart contracts can interact with the Bitcoin SV blockchain to deliver virtually endless practical use cases.

Jackson Laskey, CEO of Unbounded Enterprise and a partner at Unbounded Capital, will be next to take to the virtual floor, discussing his firm’s developer tools, aimed at streamlining the process of building for the Bitcoin SV ecosystem.

Murray then returns to discuss the upcoming Bitcoin SV DevCon 2021, taking place this May 15-16. The event brings together developers from around the world, to learn how to leverage the unique capabilities of BSV for building applications on the blockchain.

Another free event from the team at Bitcoin Association, the DevCon is expected to draw interest from right across the international BSV developer community.

Murray will then leave the BSV Virtual Meetup with closing remarks, rounding off the 60-minute introductory session.

Register now to take part in this free online event here.

New to Bitcoin? Check out CoinGeek’s Bitcoin for Beginners section, the ultimate resource guide to learn more about Bitcoin—as originally envisioned by Satoshi Nakamoto—and blockchain.