If Bitcoin is a hedge against inflation, then how can it crash when inflation is inching higher? Bitcoin’s 60-day realized volatility is far higher than that of gold, making several investors reconsider their decision to treat cryptocurrencies as a hedging instrument. Read more on the threat to Bitcoin’s hedging asset status, Saurabh Mukherjea's love for bank stocks and more in this week’s edition of ‘Long & Short of Markets’.Bitcoin has been touted as a portfolio hedge and is widely regarded as a substitute for gold by many crypto believers. But the recent price movement of Bitcoin shows that it is anything but a safe haven asset. A wild 40 per cent swing after April’s high just strengthens the doubts. READ MORE “This is for investors who care more about winning rather than sounding respectable or highbrow,” writes William Green in his book Richer, Wiser, Happier, on the investing philosophy adopted by NRI value investor Mohnish Pabrai . The US-based investor has cloned Warren Buffett’s investing approach to the minutest details as he admits that he’s a shameless copycat. READ MORE Rich valuations in midcap space and every other stock hitting upper circuits. Does it remind you of the sizzling rally of 2017 when non-quality stocks also started doing well? Yes, that’s what Dalal Street veteran Vinit Sambre of DSP Mutual Fund warns us of. He advises to wait for better pricing points in midcap. READ MORE Vetri Subramaniam, Group President & Head of Equity UTI Mutual Fund , opines that value themes work best when earnings compound concurrently over time. But with the recent run-up, valuations seem to be mispriced as earnings need to catch up, opines the market veteran. READ MORE Banking and financial services sector is one of the most accurate proxy for the economy and if the banking sector’s credit growth rate is at 2x of the real GDP, then the outlook just gets better. Marquee Dalal Street fund manager Saurabh Mukherjea explains what makes quality BFSI stocks very attractive for long-term investors. READ MORE