The Port Hope Police Service says a resident is out $8,500 due to fraud after completing several bitcoin machine transfers.

Police said a young woman received a phone call from a ‘Jason Brown with badge #SIM4464802’ who claimed to be from the ‘department of justice.’

The man provided a phone number, 905-858-2637, of the Newmarket courthouse and told the victim her social insurance card (SIN) was involved in an identity theft crime.

Police said the man said this took place “in south border Nunavut involving money laundering, drug smuggling, and opening up different bank accounts under BMO, CIBC, RBC, and TD.”

The victim was told if she did not verify who she was all her accounts would be frozen for six months, Port Hope police added.

“The victim was later transferred to a senior federal officer with the name of ‘Mark Hamilton,’” police said. “The victim was told to follow their instructions and transfer money from her Visa and line of credit.”

She was instructed to go to a bitcoin machine in Oshawa “as it was the only government approved bitcoin machine, and due to COVID-19 all government buildings were closed,” police said.

“The victim was told to stay on the phone with Hamilton and not to speak to anyone,” a release from the service read. “The victim was given instructions on how to complete the transactions through the bitcoin machine.”

Police said the woman completed two transactions totalling $7,000, was transferred to another man with the name of ‘William White’ who instructed her to send $300 to clear her name.

“She was later told court was closed and they were not able to clear her name and another transaction of $1,200 was required, which the victim completed,” police added.

Police said it was not until the woman returned to Port Hope that she realized it seemed odd and called her parents.

“Please do not become victim to these crimes – please call us, we are open 24/7,” Port Hope police said. “We will confirm any questions you may have about people asking for money.”

Loading... Loading... Loading... Loading... Loading... Loading...

If you receive a similar call hang up and call police.

No one should be asking for money over the telephone, the service added.