Bitcoin in the Gaming Industry

It’s no secret that the gaming industry is doing pretty well by taking care of the various needs of gamers across the globe. It offers them a variety of games to choose from and this number grows bigger each year. This is possible since the industry has an eye out for trends and implementing them keeps it on the top.

By making use of various tech trends developers can use cutting-edge technology to enhance the gaming experience by giving games new looks and improving their mechanics. Gaming devices got better as well and gaming, in general, went to the next level. PCs and consoles from back in the day aren’t the same as they are today, and we have to thank the industry’s ability to adapt to trends to thank for that.

When it comes to current trends, Bitcoin is booming. It has taken the financial world by storm and is one of the trends that’s here to stay. This is why many businesses have already accepted it as a viable payment method. This is the case with the gaming industry as well.

But Bitcoin is more than just another payment method. It’s also an inspiration for many developers which is why there are a few Bitcoin titles on the market. If you’re interested in them, then here are a few suggestions:

Bitcoin Flip

If crypto trading is something you’d like to try then you’ll need to have a grasp of the basics. Bitcoin Flip can help you with that since it covers Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies. This means that you’ll get a virtual market to practice trading in as well as handy tools and resources to help you gather information about the market. If trading seems a bit too complex for you then you can always go for a trading platform.

One such platform is the Oil Profit platform and it’s a bit different from a human trader. That’s because it uses an algorithm to do the trading. That doesn’t mean that it doesn’t need user input. That’s why you’ll need to make an account to use this platform. A small deposit will also be required. The next step is to learn how the platform works by going over several tutorials and a demo lesson. Once that’s over, you’ll be able to set the settings and go for your first live session. Afterward, you’re free to experiment as much as you’d want to.

Splinterlands

Splinterlands is a Bitcoin trading card game. In this game, you’ll keep what you win and you’ll face many opponents along the way. You’ll also have plenty of cards to collect by defeating the other players. The cards come from various factions and will have different features. You can use Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies to buy cards and other collectibles in the game.

RollerCoin

Bitcoin Mining is a complex process and RollerCoin is a game inspired by this process. But don’t you worry because you won’t be doing anything remotely complex. Instead, you’ll complete various missions and take on new ones. Naturally, you’ll be rewarded for your effort. Every 5 minutes in the game a new block is mined and split between the players. You’ll use these Bitcoin to pay your rent, air conditioning bills as well as data center repairs. In other words, RollerCoin is an interesting uptake on Bitcoin Mining that will keep you entertained.

Conclusion

By keeping an eye on the value of this virtual currency you’ll know that Bitcoin is still relevant today. This means that it will still influence the financial markets of the world and the gaming industry as a whole. In that regard, be ready for Bitcoin gamers and an increased number of Bitcoin games on the market.