Welcome back. This week, we turn our weary locked-down eyes to foreign holidays, and specifically to the airline sector. The idea that vaccines could bring the virus under control have made investors – and would-be travellers – optimistic, and the share prices of many airlines are back on the way up. Matthew Partridge takes an in-depth look at the sector and picks the best-placed shares to buy now. In the podcast this week, Merryn talks to one of our favourite global economists, Dambisa Moyo. She talks about the future role of corporations vs governments at a time when public trust in big companies – not necessarily fairly, says Dambisa – is not particularly high. She also has a lot to say about the economic recovery (or lack of) from the pandemic, the strength of China’s economy, and the prospects for the UK and Europe. Listen to what she has to say here.

The downward drift in the yield on the ten-year US government bond continued for another week. (Ten-year US Treasury yield: three months) The yield on the Japanese ten-year bond also continued to drop. (Ten-year Japanese government bond yield: three months) The yield on the ten-year German Bund, however, continued its slow rise towards positive territory. (Ten-year Bund yield: three months) Copper’s positive mood continued as it headed back up, almost hitting its most recent high. (Copper: nine months) The closely-related Aussie dollar didn’t seem to share its enthusiasm, however, drifting downwards against the strengthening US dollar. (Aussie dollar vs US dollar exchange rate: three months) Cryptocurrency bitcoin plummeted this week – a much bigger fall than we’ve seen in recent months. John explained in yesterday’s Money Morning how US president Joe Biden’s plans for higher taxes on “the rich” may have had something to do with it. If you missed, it, have a read of it here. (Bitcoin: three months) US weekly initial jobless claims fell again – down 39,000 to 547,000, compared to 586,000 last week (revised up from 576,000). It’s the lowest number of claims since March 2020. The four-week moving average fell to 651,000, down 27,750 from 678,750 (which was revised down from 683,000) the week before. (US initial jobless claims, four-week moving average: since Jan 2020) The oil price seems to be making its way back up. (Brent crude oil: three months) Amazon continued its modest retreat from its recent high. (Amazon: three months) While Tesla continued to tread water. (Tesla: three months) Have a great weekend. Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Share via Email